Abiy Ahmed's ruling party is expected to win a comfortable majority. AFP/Ethiopia Prime Minister Office ADDIS ABABA - Vote counting was under way following elections in Ethiopia that went ahead without polling in the war-torn northern Tigray region and other restive parts of Africa's second-most populous nation. Some 38 million people were registered to vote but many did not cast a ballot on Monday, with elections postponed or cancelled in a fifth of national constituencies because of war, insecurity and logistical problems. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed nonetheless declared Monday "a historic day for Ethiopia". "All sections of society have gone out to cast their voice in our nation's first free and fair election," the 44-year-old leader posted on Twitter, alongside images of crowds waiting to vote. "Pictures are a thousand words and they show the earnestness, commitment to peace and the democratic process, by our people." Results are not expected for several days as ballots are counted in the vast nation of 110 million. Abiy was facing voters for the first time since coming to power in 2018, and his ruling party is expected to secure a comfortable majority. Voting stretched into Monday evening, with the nearly 50,000 polling stations staying open an extra three hours to accommodate long queues after delays in delivering ballot papers. Results are not due for several days in the vast nation of 110 million "Voter turnout was very high, both in urban centres and rural areas," National Election Board of Ethiopia (NEBE) spokeswoman Solyana Shimeles told reporters on Tuesday, without offering a figure. The board said the vote was mostly peaceful but it reported "high levels of intimidation" of opposition party members in some regions. A coalition of civil society election monitors reported 118 incidents, including 93 they had verified. Preliminary results were being posted outside polling stations in Addis Ababa, drawing crowds to inspect the outcome. The election was twice delayed -- once because of the coronavirus pandemic, which has hammered Ethiopia's economy, and again to allow more time to organise the ballot. Holding smooth elections is a daunting task at the best of times in such a large country with poor infrastructure, and some of the challenges that beset preparations also troubled the vote itself.