Chris Froome comes full circle with his Tour return at Brest. AFP/Fabrice Coffrini PARIS - Chris Froome says he will help Israel Start-Up Nation leader Michael Woods in the same manner he himself was helped as he won the Tour de France four times on his return after a two-year gap. Froome suffered multiple injuries at the Criterium du Dauphine in 2019 and has since changed teams from Ineos to ISN, who included the Briton in their Tour team as support for the in form Canadian Woods. "It feels great to be able to give something back, I'm only focussed on supporting the guys around me. A similar job has been done for me previously, and now I'm glad to be on the other side, giving something back," said Froome, who reportedly earns 5 million dollars a year with ISN. READ: Froome struggling but determined two years on from Dauphine crash While he said his team hoped to place  Woods high in the general classification Froome admitted that the main favourites would be tough to beat. "Tadej Pogacar isn't slowing down is he?" Froome said of the defending champion. "Primoz Roglic is really strong and has a good team around him while Ineos has multiple leaders," Froome pointed out. READ: Froome comeback on track after UAE test on Israel Start-Up debut Froome's return to the race after a two years absence has special significance, he said as it embarks from the Atlantic port of Brest. "Given that Brest was where I first discovered the Tour de France as a neo-pro in 2008, it brings things full circle. "I'll be heading to this Tour with a similar mindset to my fist one," said Froome, who has shown deep determination to get back on a Tour roster. READ: Returning Froome confident he can regain best form "Hopefully, it will be a stepping stone for me to get back to my former level. It puts my recovery period behind me," he said. "I have missed being there. The first year I watched from a wheelchair, I enjoyed being a fan again, thoroughly enjoyed just watching and being a fan." Israel Start-Up Nation is in its second season at World Tour level and was co-founded by Israeli-Canadian real estate tycoon and cycling enthusiast Sylvain Adams. "The entire world is tuned in, its a symbol of achievement that we have made it here to the Tour de France, and this year we hope to make some noise," said Adams by zoom call from Vancouver.