Britain's fast rollout of vaccines has helped the country reopen its economy and lifted the pound to a three-year high against the dollar. AFP/Justin Tallis LONDON - Oil prices surged on demand optimism ahead of the latest OPEC meeting on Tuesday, while the pound hit a three-year high against the dollar over Britain's economic rebound and equities mostly rose with focus on upcoming US jobs data. Wall Street and London were closed Monday for holidays meaning there were few drivers for buying, with the general theme continuing to be the global economic recovery playing against fears about inflation and a possible taper of central bank monetary policy. The rollout of vaccines around the world has allowed leaders of key economies including the United States and Europe to wind back the containment measures that sparked a recession last year. That, combined with mind-boggling government spending splurges and central bank largesse, has been crucial to a rally in global equities from their March 2020 lows to record or multi-year highs. Analysts expect more gains but warn the road will be bumpy as inflation spikes - caused by a strong recovery in activity, supply issues, bottlenecks and a low base of on-year comparison - lead to concern over possible central bank tightening. The release of figures showing how many jobs were created in the United States last month is being keenly awaited for an idea about the strength of the recovery, with hopes for a sizeable jump after a disappointing miss in April. After a tepid start to the day, Asian markets were broadly positive in the afternoon. Hong Kong, Shanghai, Singapore, Seoul, Wellington, Taipei and Bangkok were all up, though there were small losses in Tokyo and Sydney, while Manila was flat. Mumbai edged slightly lower a day after data showed India's economy suffered its worst contraction since independence more than seven decades ago. Kuala Lumpur also eased as Malaysia imposed a tough lockdown across the country to battle a new virus surge. London returned from a long weekend to enjoy gains soon after the open, while Paris and Frankfurt were also up.