Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was travelling from Schiphol airport to Kuala Lumpur when it was shot down over part of eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russian rebels. AFP/Peter Dejong AMSTERDAM - Dutch judges will on Monday start hearing evidence against three Russian suspects and a Ukrainian in the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 over war-torn Ukraine in 2014. The trial formally began in March 2020 but has so far been dealing with legal arguments, mainly about the admissibility of evidence in the crash in which 298 passengers and crew were killed. The four suspects -- Russian nationals Oleg Pulatov, Igor Girkin and Sergei Dubinsky, and Ukrainian citizen Leonid Kharchenko -- are all being tried in absentia. Only Pulatov has legal representation. READ: MH17 murder trial starts with calls for justice "The court will open the MH17 criminal trial proper and, through examining and discussing the content of the prosecution file, elucidate the key questions which it has already begun to address," the court said in a statement. "Was flight MH17 shot down by a BUK missile? Was a BUK missile fired from an agricultural field near Pervomaiskyi? Did the accused play a role in this?" the statement added. The judges visited the shrapnel-pierced wreckage of flight MH17 for the first time in May in what they described as an "emotionally loaded" day The Boeing 777 jet was travelling from Amsterdam's Schiphol airport to Kuala Lumpur when it was shot down over part of eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russian rebels. READ: Calls for justice on fifth anniversary of MH17 crash An international investigation concluded that a BUK missile that had originally come from the Russian army's 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade based in the city of Kursk was responsible. All four suspects are accused of being key figures among the separatist rebels battling Kiev. The trial is being held in the Netherlands, in a secure courtroom near Schiphol airport, because it was the point of departure for the doomed plane, and because 196 of the victims were Dutch. READ: MH17 investigators name three Russian suspects, one Ukrainian The court said that the "hearing on the merits" will begin on Monday with general topics including the investigation by the examining magistrate, followed by three more days of discussion from Tuesday to Thursday. The prosecution and defence will then have the chance to raise issues during hearings lasting until July 9. Pulatov, the only suspect to be represented at the trial by lawyers, said in a video played to the court in November that he had seen no sign of any missile.