File: Prices for crude oil have hit levels not seen since October 2018. AFP/Frederic J. Brown LONDON - The OPEC+ group of oil-producing countries will meet on Thursday and are expected to agree to boost production in August in order to meet demand and dampen recent price rises. While improvement in demand drove the group's most recent rises in production, now price levels will also be a guiding force behind the club's decisions. After demand dropped when the coronavirus pandemic broke out last year and crude prices briefly turned negative, the club led by Saudi Arabia and Russia imposed sharp production cuts in order to raise prices. The 13 members of OPEC and their 10 allies in the OPEC+ grouping were rewarded by seeing prices for the two contracts of reference, Brent and WTI, recover to around $75 per barrel, levels not seen since October 2018. However that strategy has worked almost too well and the group is currently following a policy of cautiously turning the taps back on. - 'Rising pressures' - While on the face of it buoyant prices are a boon for producers -- and some of them will be pushing to increase output to cash in -- there are also risks. Russia is expected to favour increasing output, as it has done at several recent OPEC+ meetings. India is a notable example. The world's third-largest consumer of crude has been hit by a vicious coronavirus wave in recent months and has urged OPEC+ "to phase out crude output cuts to temper rising inflationary pressures", noted Stephen Brennock from PVM. "If prices remain this high, this will eat into consumers' disposable incomes and potentially choke economic growth, which, over time, will weigh on crude prices," explained Fawad Razaqzada of Thinkmarkets. - 'Travel intensive summer' - The outlook for crude demand has been steadily improving in recent months. In its last report in mid-June, the International Energy Agency (IEA) forecast that global demand would outstrip pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2022. Since December the OPEC+ countries have been meeting every month in order to calibrate their strategy as closely as possible to the latest developments.