Egyptian pharmacist Nahla Abdel-Hameed holds a scorpion with tweezers at the desert facility. AFP/Khaled Desouki CAIRO - Surrounded by thousands of live scorpions in a laboratory deep in Egypt's Western Desert, Ahmed Abu al-Seoud carefully handles one of the curved-tailed arachnids before extracting a drop of its venom. A mechanical engineer who worked in the oil sector for almost two decades, Abu al-Seoud decided in 2018 to strike a different path -- producing scorpion venom for pharmaceutical research purposes. "I was surfing the internet and saw scorpion venom was one of the most expensive on the market," said the 44-year-old, clad in a white lab coat. "So I thought to myself: Why not take advantage of this desert environment where they roam around?" Biomedical researchers are studying the pharmaceutical properties of scorpion venom, making the rare and potent neurotoxin a highly sought-after commodity now produced in several Middle Eastern countries. "Dozens of scorpion-derived bioactive molecules have been shown to possess promising pharmacological properties," said a review published last May in the journal Biomedicines. It said labs are now studying its potential anti-microbial, immuno-suppressive and anti-cancer effects, among others, hoping to one day use or synthesise them for medicines. Workers wait 20-30 days between extractions to obtain the highest quality venom. "What matters is the level of purity," Abu al-Seoud said, adding that one gram requires the venom of 3,000-3,500 scorpions. The liquid is refrigerated and transported to Cairo, where it is dried and packaged for sale as powder. New Valley province boasts around five different species of scorpions, including the sought-after deathstalker (Leiurus quinquestriatus), whose venom sells for up to $7,500 per gram, according to Abu al-Seoud. While he himself also catches the creatures, he employs residents of nearby villages for the risky activity, equipping them with gloves, tweezers, boots, UV lights -- and antivenom. The scorpion hunters earn one to 1.5 Egyptian pounds per animal. While Egypt has been producing various types of venom for years, Abu al-Seoud said, it was often done illegally or was of poor quality. He said he hoped his operation would one day be an antidote to the country's "bad reputation" in the sector.