Dozens of people were killed in the deadliest day of the crackdown by Myanmar's military against anti-coup protesters. AFP/STR YANGON - Defiant anti-coup protesters returned to cities and towns across Myanmar on Thursday after dozens of people were killed in the deadliest day of the junta's crackdown, with global powers condemning the "brutal violence". At least 38 people died on Wednesday, according to the United Nations, when online images streamed out of Myanmar showing security forces firing into crowds and blood-covered bodies of protesters with bullet wounds in their heads. READ: 17 dead as Myanmar security forces fire at protesters Myanmar's military staged its coup on 1 February, ending a decade-long experiment with democracy and triggering a mass uprising that the junta has increasingly sought to quash with lethal force. Wednesday's violence left the United States "appalled and revulsed," State Department spokesman Ned Price said. READ: Myanmar security forces fire on anti-coup protesters "We call on all countries to speak with one voice to condemn the brutal violence by the Burmese military against its own people," he said, referring to the country by its former name. French President Emmanuel Macron called for an "immediate end of the repression in Myanmar". More than 50 people have been killed since the military takeover, UN envoy to Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener told reporters. The junta has sought to hide its crackdown from the rest of the world, choking the internet and banning Facebook -- the most popular social media platform. READ: Myanmar's Suu Kyi hit with two new criminal charges Six journalists were also arrested on the weekend and charged under a law prohibiting "causing fear, spreading false news, or agitating directly or indirectly a government employee", according to their lawyer Tin Zar Oo. Security forces have arrested nearly 1,500 people since the start of the coup, with 1,200 of them still in detention, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) monitoring group. The group said it had documented more than 50 deaths, as it detailed teenagers and people aged in their 20s who had been shot in the head and chest.