Mkuze, 19 April 2015 - Kings Goodwill Zwelithini Zwelithini officiated a new chief installation in northern KwaZulu Natal on Saturday, but no direct mention was made to ongoing xenophobic violence in the region. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini elaborated on his comments on foreign nationals during an officiating ceremony for a new chief in Jozini, KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday, 18 April 2015. The Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini celebrating his 51st birthday along with his grandchildren at the Lindizulu palace in Nongoma (Kwazulu-Natal province) some 300 km from Durban. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi(R) receives a gift from Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (L) at a welcoming reception at the Durban City hall on July 9, 2016. South African President Jacob Zuma (L) applauds Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (R) on May 8, 2010 after officially opening the Central Terminal building of Durban's new King Shaka International Airport and Dube Trade Port, north of Durban. Britain's Prince Charles, Prince of Wales (L) receives a gift from Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini at Ondini Palace on November 4,2011 in Ulundi. Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan (L) shares a lighter moment with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini ka Bhekuzulu (R) at the opening of the four day 8th World Conference on Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion at the Durban International Convention Centre (ICC), Former South African President of the apartheid regime Pik Botha (L) laughs with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini Senior Prince of the Zulu Nation and leader of the Inkatha Freedom Party ( IFP), Mangosuthu Buthelezi, South Africa's Deputy President Jacob Zuma (C) and Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini ka Bhekuzulu (L) share a light moment Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, dressed in a traditional Zulu warrior outfit, poses for photographers 05 August 2000 for his 52nd birthday celebrations at Rumelin stadium in Madadeni near Newcastle, some 400 kilometres from Durban. Swaziland King Mswati III is joined by his brother-in-law Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (R) for the celebration of his 30th birthday which coincides with the 30th anniversary of Swazi independence from the British colonialism at the Somhlolo National Stadium South African President Nelson Mandela (L) and the Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini speak at the end of the meeting held at the Royal residence in Nongoma northern KwaZulu Natal region, 15 March. South African President Nelson Mandela (c) flanked by AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (l) and Inkatha Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi gather at Hluhluwe Game Reserve in Northern Natal, 30 April 1995 British Queen Elizabeth II looks up to Zulu King Zwelithini as he presents her a replica of a cup given to King Cetshwayo by Queen Victoria in 1882, here at a ceremonious luncheon in Durban, South Africa, 25 March. Frederik W. de Klerk (C), Nelson Mandela (L), and Zulu King Goodwill Zweletini (R) speaking to the press in Skuzuz after meeting to try and bring an end to the bloodshed in KwaZulu Natal. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini delivers a speech during a traditional gathering called Imbizo at the Moses Mabhida Football Stadium in Durban on April 20, 2015. AmaZulu King, Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. AFP/Rajesh Jantilal AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu and KwaZulu Premier Sihle Zikalala at the opening of the KwaZulu Legislature. File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu (L) and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi (R) join thousands of people to commemorate King Shaka's Day Celebration near the grave of the great AmaZulu King Shaka, at KwaDukuza, on 24 September 2019. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: King Zwelithini is partnering with the founders of JR Capital, and a well-established Mobile Virtual Network Enabler. File: King Goodwill Zwelithini looks on during Umkhosi Welembe, an annual commemoration of King Shaka kaSenzangakhona. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu wants an assurance that his nation’s land won’t be touched under land expropriation without compensation. File: Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. GCIS President Jacob Zuma shares a light moment with King Goodwill Zwelithini during the tombstone unveiling ceremony of Queen Thomozile Jezangani Ndwandwe Zulu. Mkuze, 19 April 2015 - Kings Goodwill Zwelithini Zwelithini officiated a new chief installation in northern KwaZulu Natal on Saturday, but no direct mention was made to ongoing xenophobic violence in the region. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini elaborated on his comments on foreign nationals during an officiating ceremony for a new chief in Jozini, KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday, 18 April 2015. The Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini celebrating his 51st birthday along with his grandchildren at the Lindizulu palace in Nongoma (Kwazulu-Natal province) some 300 km from Durban. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi(R) receives a gift from Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (L) at a welcoming reception at the Durban City hall on July 9, 2016. South African President Jacob Zuma (L) applauds Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (R) on May 8, 2010 after officially opening the Central Terminal building of Durban's new King Shaka International Airport and Dube Trade Port, north of Durban. Britain's Prince Charles, Prince of Wales (L) receives a gift from Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini at Ondini Palace on November 4,2011 in Ulundi. Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan (L) shares a lighter moment with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini ka Bhekuzulu (R) at the opening of the four day 8th World Conference on Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion at the Durban International Convention Centre (ICC), Former South African President of the apartheid regime Pik Botha (L) laughs with Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini Senior Prince of the Zulu Nation and leader of the Inkatha Freedom Party ( IFP), Mangosuthu Buthelezi, South Africa's Deputy President Jacob Zuma (C) and Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini ka Bhekuzulu (L) share a light moment Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, dressed in a traditional Zulu warrior outfit, poses for photographers 05 August 2000 for his 52nd birthday celebrations at Rumelin stadium in Madadeni near Newcastle, some 400 kilometres from Durban. Swaziland King Mswati III is joined by his brother-in-law Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (R) for the celebration of his 30th birthday which coincides with the 30th anniversary of Swazi independence from the British colonialism at the Somhlolo National Stadium South African President Nelson Mandela (L) and the Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini speak at the end of the meeting held at the Royal residence in Nongoma northern KwaZulu Natal region, 15 March. South African President Nelson Mandela (c) flanked by AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini (l) and Inkatha Freedom Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi gather at Hluhluwe Game Reserve in Northern Natal, 30 April 1995 British Queen Elizabeth II looks up to Zulu King Zwelithini as he presents her a replica of a cup given to King Cetshwayo by Queen Victoria in 1882, here at a ceremonious luncheon in Durban, South Africa, 25 March. Frederik W. de Klerk (C), Nelson Mandela (L), and Zulu King Goodwill Zweletini (R) speaking to the press in Skuzuz after meeting to try and bring an end to the bloodshed in KwaZulu Natal. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini delivers a speech during a traditional gathering called Imbizo at the Moses Mabhida Football Stadium in Durban on April 20, 2015. AmaZulu King, Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. AFP/Rajesh Jantilal AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu and KwaZulu Premier Sihle Zikalala at the opening of the KwaZulu Legislature. File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu (L) and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi (R) join thousands of people to commemorate King Shaka's Day Celebration near the grave of the great AmaZulu King Shaka, at KwaDukuza, on 24 September 2019. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: King Zwelithini is partnering with the founders of JR Capital, and a well-established Mobile Virtual Network Enabler. File: King Goodwill Zwelithini looks on during Umkhosi Welembe, an annual commemoration of King Shaka kaSenzangakhona. Rajesh Jantilal/AFP File: AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu wants an assurance that his nation’s land won’t be touched under land expropriation without compensation. File: Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. GCIS President Jacob Zuma shares a light moment with King Goodwill Zwelithini during the tombstone unveiling ceremony of Queen Thomozile Jezangani Ndwandwe Zulu. Mkuze, 19 April 2015 - Kings Goodwill Zwelithini Zwelithini officiated a new chief installation in northern KwaZulu Natal on Saturday, but no direct mention was made to ongoing xenophobic violence in the region. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini elaborated on his comments on foreign nationals during an officiating ceremony for a new chief in Jozini, KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday, 18 April 2015. JOHANNESBURG - South Africa is mourning the death of the AmaZulu King, Goodwill Zwelithini. The 72-year-old king passed away on Friday morning, after battling with high glucose levels. READ: King Goodwill Zwelithini's remains arrive home The king served as AmaZulu monarch for almost 50-years