Justice Minister Ronald Lamola has met with the Defend our Democracy delegation in Pretoria over concerns regarding former president Jacob Zuma's refusal to appear before the state capture commission. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Justice Minister Ronald Lamola says the Constitution must be protected and defended by all South Africans. Lamola was responding to the Defend Our Democracy delegation. Earlier, the group handed him a memorandum of demands. READ: Zuma must fall in line or fall out: Msimang This following former president Jacob Zuma's refusal to appear at the state capture inquiry. Lamola says the judiciary must be allowed to do its job without fear or favour. "We have always said that we view the Constitution as sacrosanct and the rule of law is a sacrosanct component of our democracy that we all have to respect and adhere to because any failure to adhere to the prescripts of the Constitution and the rule of law may lead to a degeneration into anarchy," Lamola said. READ: Zuma vs Zondo | Contempt of court matter set for Thursday The campaign has the support of the Desmond and Leah Tutu Foundation and other prominent South Africans. "The issue is very simple, basically, that we have come in this country from a period where people in government decided to work outside the law and the constitution because if you get corrupted or you use state resources for purposes it is not meant for which has come out in the commissions that have been set up," Frank Chikane from the Defend Our Democracy campaign said. READ: SACP: Zuma holding SA's democracy to ransom "It's clear that people acted as government officials, politicians outside the Constitution and the law. It's not just about the former president defying the Constitutional Court ruling, but it's that practice and tendency that has been happening over the years. "We are of the view, that the time has come as the people of South Africa. You've heard us say the people are the last line of defence when everything fails. So the mobilisation is about getting the people of South Africa to say, "we are not going to watch from outside and see our country destroyed." Minister of Justice and Correctional Services @RonaldLamola has just received a memorandum from the Defend Democracy campaign which was initiated to defend Constitutional democracy, demand accountability for capture and corruption & support the upholding of the rule of law. pic.twitter.com/y2iraDuePk