The ECB may revise down growth forecasts for this year as Europe's pandemic rebound lags other major economies. AFP/Yann Schreiber BERLIN - The European Central Bank is expected to stress its commitment to keeping borrowing costs low, as inflation concerns and a slow vaccination drive weigh on the eurozone economy. This week's meeting of the ECB's 25-member governing council is likely to be dominated by a recent rise in global bond yields, triggered by signs of higher inflation on the horizon. Investors fear faster price growth could force a hike in interest rates that would make borrowing more expensive and slow the recovery from the pandemic. "ECB President Christine Lagarde will have to convince markets that the central bank remains strongly committed to securing favourable financing conditions," Unicredit bank said in an analyst note. READ: ECB's Lagarde says cancelling COVID debts 'unthinkable' The Frankfurt institution is also expected to nudge down its 2021 forecast for economic growth in Thursday's latest quarterly projections. Many curbs on public life remain in place as the euro area struggles to bring down coronavirus infections, while the pace of vaccinations lags behind countries like the United States or Britain. To boost growth and drive up anaemic inflation, the ECB has long held interest rates at historically low and even negative levels, alongside offering ultra-cheap loans to banks. It responded to the coronavirus shock by launching a 1.85 trillion euro ($2.2-trillion) pandemic emergency bond-buying programme (PEPP), on top of an existing asset purchasing scheme running at 20 billion euros a month. READ: Global economy on stronger footing, but suffers huge losses: IMF The massive debt purchases are aimed at keeping credit flowing in the 19-nation currency club to encourage spending and investment. "With no prospect of any change to its policy settings, the focus will be on the bank's efforts to explain how and when it would step up bond purchases in response to rising bond yields," said Andrew Kenningham, an economist at Capital Economics. Some observers expect the ECB to step up the pace of PEPP purchases or extend the scheme beyond March 2022, while others think the bank might settle for saying it is "monitoring" the yield situation.