Egyptian tug boats trying to free Taiwan-owned cargo MV Ever Given (Evergreen). AFP/Suez Canal Authority CAIRO - It was the ship that launched a thousand memes, with social media users sharing viral images on Thursday of a giant container vessel wedged into the banks of the Suez canal. The Ever Given first got stuck across the vital shipping route on Tuesday, with Egyptian authorities still desperately trying to shift the 59-metre wide and 400-metre long ship. Days into the saga, and with no quick solution apparent, Twitter users decided the vessel was the perfect encapsulation of the past two years. READ: Giant ship blocks Suez Canal after running aground in sandstorm One of the most shared photographs was taken from a ship following the Ever Given, and showed it blocking the canal. "A pangolin fluttering their eyelashes at a bat," read the caption above the Ever Given, while the text on the blocked vessel said: "Any hope of enjoying 2020." "Me dutifully chipping away at my tasks," read another, overlaying an image of the container ship dwarfing a lone digger attempting to dislodge it. READ: Suez Canal suspends traffic as bid to refloat grounded ship hits trouble A GIF from "Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery" -- where the main character is stuck in a shuttle car reversing back and forth in a narrow tunnel -- was photoshopped with the vessel. Tapping into the zeitgeist of the past few months, a photograph of a pair of construction workers surveying the ship was captioned "mindfulness" while text above the wedged vessel read: "My anxiety from all the death and Covid." Finally, many online users shared Amazon's customer review page for the book "How To Avoid Huge Ships", with one writing: "Hello Suez Canal library, how can I help?" This is my favourite meme format in a long time pic.twitter.com/p7XOuC43PU pic.twitter.com/tVPQsAilSR As a shipping lawyer I approve this meme.
(p.s all in good fun - don't come for my skill set!)#suezcanal @SuezDiggerGuy @ever_given @tresAudrey https://t.co/fm9YAhKU03 Evergreen pic.twitter.com/QX33cgM6tC This deserves to be a crypto meme. Best one (judged by me) gets 0.005 BTC pic.twitter.com/gnQpwTRBgV