SMEs in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro claim the municipality is dragging its feet while they’re going hungry. They are protesting about the processes around a housing project. eNCA's Nceba Ntlanganiso filed this report. Courtesy #DStv403 QGEBERHA - SMMEs in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro claim the municipality is dragging its feet while they're going hungry. They're protesting about the processes around a R46-million housing project, one of the biggest in the Metro. It forms part of the Metro's efforts to address its 80,000-unit housing backlog. READ: Human Settlements department to investigate housing project 41 contractors successfully qualified to be part of the housing project after the tender process was completed in 2019 but an objection process has caused an upset among SMEs. The municipality has also put the brakes on the project, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. SMEs say the objection process is causing more delays and is being used to manipulate the process in favour of certain contractors. READ: Disabled housing beneficiaries threatened by land grabbers Phindile Mzobe, an SMME committee member said, "we demand what is rightfully for us. And we have followed all the processes that were required in that document." "So far nothing that has been delivered. It's been the last five years that the Human Settlement delivery has been dormant. We fell into debts, we can't pay our service charges, we have got no food at home. But fortunately we are still sustained with the hope that things will materialize..."
The Nelson Mandela Bay MMC for Human Settlements says SMEs have to adapt as things are being done differently now under the new coalition government.
Nelson Mandela Bay Human Settlements MMC Mkhuseli Mtsila said, "...Over the years it have been happening like that, were they wil continue while the objections are still in place. It seems as this year that culture or that norm or that precedent won't be carried." "There is a particular process that have been followed by the leadership of this coalition government that will need to follow in order to make sure that everything its verified. The law <must> take its course on everything, there are no desputes, no questions at the end of the day..."
The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality says it wants to prove to the Eastern Cape government that it is capable of running a housing project and that it will do what is required of it and wants to ensure the success of the project.