Radio telescope antennas of the European Southern Observatory's (ESO) Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) project at the Chajnantor plateau, in Atacama desert, Chile. AFP/ Ariel Marinkovic PARIS - The astronomers who gave the world its first true glimpse of a black hole have produced another landmark image, this time capturing the polarised light swirling around the same star-eating monster's magnetic fields. But it is more than just a pretty picture. Never before has it been possible to measure polarisation -- which causes light waves to vibrate in a single plane -- so close to the edge of a black hole. The new observations, based on data collected by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) in 2017, are key to understanding how a galaxy can project streams of energy thousands of lightyears outward from its core, more than 300 scientists reported Wednesday in a pair of studies. READ: Scientists detect mysterious 'intermediate mass' black hole "We are now seeing the next crucial piece of evidence to understand how magnetic fields behave around black holes," said co-author Monika Moscibrodzka, an assistant professor at Radboud University in the Netherlands. "Activity in this very compact region of space can drive powerful jets that extend far beyond the galaxy." After releasing the historic image of the supermassive black hole at the heart of galaxy M87, more than 55 million light-years from Earth, the researchers discovered that a significant fraction of its surrounding light was polarised. "The polarisation of light carries information that allows us to better understand the physics behind the image we saw in April 2019," explained co-author Ivan Marti-Vidal, a researcher at the University of Valencia. It took several years to process and analyse the data, he added, calling the result "a major milestone." "We are now seeing the next crucial piece of evidence to understand how magnetic fields behave around black holes," said Monika Moscibrodzka, of Radboud University in the Netherlands. AFP/European Southern Observatory This makes it possible to map the magnetic field lines at the black hole's inner edge. The groundbreaking image of M87's black hole and its shadow in polarised light allows astronomers to see for the first time this interplay between matter flowing in and being ejected. READ: 'Mystery object' in space may be smallest black hole So-called supermassive black holes -- such as the one sitting at the centre of the Milky Way and most galaxies -- are at least a million times bigger than the Sun. The results were published in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.