President Cyril Ramaphosa says Johnson and Johnson have committed to producing 220-million vaccines for Africa and has committed to 30-million doses for South Africa. Courtesy of #DStv403 GQEBERHA - President Cyril Ramaphosa says Johnson & Johnson has committed to producing 220 million vaccines for Africa. Thirty million of those are for South Africa and delivery is expected to start next month. READ: More J&J vaccines expected to arrive in SA Ramaphosa visited the Aspen Pharmacare manufacturing facility in Gqeberha in the Eastern Cape. In November, Aspen Pharmacare collaborated with Johnson & Johnson to establish the capacity required for the manufacturing of the vaccines. READ: Interested in vaccine rollouts across Africa? Here's a map to guide you "We are pleased with the outcome of that intervention. An intervention that has led to J&J finally saying "yes" and signing that they will make 220 million vaccines for the entire continent of Africa for starters," Ramaphosa said. "We anticipate it will build up to even more. Then, in South Africa, we will have 30 million vaccines. I impressed on them that I want them now, I don't want them much later than now. We are here, therefore, to come and fetch our vaccines," he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa has spoken out against what he calls 'vaccine apartheid'. He is calling for equality for all in the procurement of vaccines. eNCA's Govan Whittles reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 The president also spoke out against what he called "vaccine apartheid". Ramaphosa is calling for equality for all in the procurement of vaccines. READ: COVID-19 vaccine: Officials happy with Eastern Cape rollout He said countries that are able to manufacture vaccines should be allowed to do so. "Vaccine apartheid must come to an end. No one is safe until everyone is safe," he said. "All of us must be treated equally across the world. It is for this reason that we are calling for the World Trade Organisation to waive its restrictions on enabling countries that can manufacture vaccines to be able to do so," he said.