 Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo insists e-tolls have no place on Gauteng roads. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo insists e-tolls have no place on Gauteng roads. He was speaking during an interview earlier following reports that Sanral will block car licence renewals for those that don’t pay their e-tolls. "As a provincial government, we will spare no effort to any attempt that seeks to bring back e-tolls," he said. READ: The e-toll story not an easy one, says Mbalula "We have written to Minister Fikile Mbalula in this regard, and we are expecting feedback from them. "But from where we stand as the provincial government, no regulation should have a relationship with the e-tolling system that we clearly said was unnecessary in the first place." Mamabolo said they will wait to hear what the way forward is. READ: Public to be informed soon on future of e-tolls: Mbalula 'We are very clear on this matter. The people of our province have overwhelmingly rejected e-tolls." Mamabolo is adamant the online driver's license system has improved. This despite protests by the National Driving Schools Association of South Africa. WATCH: National Driving Schools Association unhappy with online booking It said the system is not working. "On 16 December last year, we announced a very comprehensive set of interventions that brought on board the Gautrain because we want to turn their facilities into driver's license renewal centres," he said. "We've also announced working with the Road Traffic Management Corporation, that we're also going to be extending capacity to meet the demand but also indicated that we would be making improvements to the eNatis system in respect to bookings. "We have seen tremendous improvement, thus far we have issued more than 20,000 SMSs giving people bookings without them asking."  Gauteng Transport MEC Jacob Mamabolo is adamant the online driver's license system has improved. This despite protests by the National Driving Schools Association of South Africa. Courtesy #DStv403