Security analysts believe the insurgent attack on Palma in Mozambique marks a significant turning point in the conflict. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Dozens of people who were trapped in northern Mozambique after an attack by insurgents have reportedly been freed. Around 180 people are said to have been trapped in a hotel in the town of Palma – as violence that began on Wednesday intensified on Friday, with at least seven people killed. News24 is reporting that evacuations by boat, of  more than 1,200 people -among them South Africans – began earlier on Sunday but it is believed that more than 100 people are still missing. Security analysts believe the insurgent attack on Palma in Mozambique marks a significant turning point in the conflict. The fighting in Cabo Delgado has left thousands of Mozambicans dead. But the insurgency has mostly been in rural areas. Now, the country’s financial interests, and those of multi-nationals, are under severe threat. "The significance is that it has targeted the town which is essentially the central hub, the mainstay of Mozambique’s liquified natural gas project which is assessed to bring in the country billions of revenue," says Signal Risk director, Ryan Cummings. “And we also know that it is the hub where foreign multi-nationals oil companies and those that have been contracted to these groups have centred all their employees and infrastructure,” he adds. Cummings believes this latest escalation marks a turning point. READ: Mozambique attack survivors evacuated to provincial capital “We know in the lead up to this offensive, which actually occurred occurred just days of not hours after the United States designated the Al Sunnah network and their leadership and formal extremist organisations, that there is going to be a much more significant focus on this insurgency and possible intervention," says Cummings. Willem Els from the Institute for Security Studies agrees. “It will be a turning point because I believe the international community's eyes will be focused on the area now," says Els. "I also believe that there will be a lot of pressure from investors on the government of Maputo to make more decisive actions and to intervene more decisively,” he says. Els says the regional and international community must co-operate to help Mozambique bring an end to the fighting. But he says the solution is not at the end of a barrel of a gun. Pretoria has so far adopted quiet diplomacy - on fears that helping our neighbours could result in Islamist attacks on home soil. The escalation, and the possible deaths of South African citizens, could change that.