With matric results now done and dusted, those who excelled will be heading to universities across the country. In the Western Cape, some matriculants are showing that poverty is no stumbling block to success. #eNCA​ reporter Ayesha Ismail caught up with some of the top achievers. #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - With matric results now done and dusted, those who excelled will be heading to universities across the country. In the Western Cape, some matriculants are showing that poverty is no stumbling block to success.
Imagine being in matric in an informal settlement without electricity, clean running water and no Wi-Fi at home. This is the reality for some school shots but matriculants living in informal settlements and townships didn't let their circumstances hold them back. Attending the Sophumelela High School in Philippi, Siphosethu Limane who lives in the Kosovo informal settlement didn't only pass matric well, he achieved distinctions in all his eight subjects with a 100 percent for physics and 99 percent for Mathematics. "You just need to believe in yourself, you can do it and work as a team," says Siphosethu Limane. READ: 2020 matric results to be released "Whenever you work as a team you're going to achieve more," he adds. His friend Alakhe Mfutwana at the same school achieved six distinctions. They, along with their other friends from Philippi, will be heading to the University of Cape Town on Monday to move into res to start the next phase of their lives. Limane will be studying actuarial science and Mfutwana medicine. With COVID-19 forcing matriculants to study online some say it took hard work and discipline to get them through the year. Maghjabeen Ali from Grassy Park bagged eight distinctions despite finding it difficult to study online in the beginning. "I had the goal and I really wanted a bursary so those pushed me a lot and I always wanted to do well for my parents so that I can get a good career. And for medicine specifically, I've always wanted to help people as best as I can. So I think that's what motivated me," says Ali. Fagan Lenting from Bonteheuwel is used to hearing gunshots and gang fights in his area. But he decided to focus on his matric to improve his circumstances. And his hard work paid off with eight distinctions. "I plan on studying astrophysics at UCT cut away with the aim to become an astrophysicist or an astronomer," Lenting. And this just goes to show that no matter your circumstances, you can still achieve your goals if you put your mind to it.