A member of the royal family looks on during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaks during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. Phill Magakoe /Pool\ AFP Kwazulu Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala (front L), South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (front C) and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi (front R) arrive at the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. An elderly Zulu woman wearing a cloth reflecting the face of King Goodwill Zwelithini walks inside the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace during his memorial service in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. Phill Magakoe / AFP South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (R) speaks with former South African President Jacob Zuma (L) during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. File: Charlene, Princess of Monaco (C) reacts during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP King Goodwill Zwelithini’s bother Prince Mbonisi Zulu looks on during his memorial service at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP A young Zulu maiden dances during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP King Goodwill Zwelithini’s wives mourn during his memorial service at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP Zulu maidens dance during the memorial of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP A member of the royal family looks on during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaks during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. Phill Magakoe /Pool\ AFP Kwazulu Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala (front L), South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (front C) and Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi (front R) arrive at the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. An elderly Zulu woman wearing a cloth reflecting the face of King Goodwill Zwelithini walks inside the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace during his memorial service in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. Phill Magakoe / AFP South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (R) speaks with former South African President Jacob Zuma (L) during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. File: Charlene, Princess of Monaco (C) reacts during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP King Goodwill Zwelithini’s bother Prince Mbonisi Zulu looks on during his memorial service at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP A young Zulu maiden dances during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP King Goodwill Zwelithini’s wives mourn during his memorial service at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP Zulu maidens dance during the memorial of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP A member of the royal family looks on during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. King Goodwill Zwelithini died on March 12, 2021 in the eastern city of Durban, aged 72, after weeks of treatment for a diabetes-related illness.His remains have been taken back to his birthplace, the small southeastern town of Nongoma in Kwa-Zulu Natal province, where he will be laid to rest after midnight. Phill Magakoe / POOL / AFP South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaks during the memorial service of King Goodwill Zwelithini at the KwaKhethomthandayo royal palace in Nongoma, South Africa, on March 18, 2021. Phill Magakoe /Pool\ AFP Editor's note: Scroll through the images above using the arrows on the gallery. #DStv403 #eNCA  KWANONGOMA - The AmaZulu nation bid its final farewell to King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. His planting took place in the early hours of Thursday morning. WATCH: Zulu maidens pay tribute to King Goodwill Zwelithini A memorial service was held to celebrate a monarch who's been hailed as a peacemaker. President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy. The King received a Special Official Funeral Category 1.