Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the proposed change was necessary to "maintain enduring peace and stability in Hong Kong" BEIJING - Beijing's controversial proposal to introduce new veto powers on Hong Kong's legislative elections are "lawful, just and reasonable," China's foreign minister said Sunday, after the move was criticised as an attack on the city's freedoms. Legislation to allow China's communist rulers to vet all election candidates in Hong Kong was put forward Friday at the opening of the nation's rubber-stamp parliament in Beijing. READ: China says wants economy to grow over 6% in 2021 Foreign Minister Wang Yi, speaking at a press conference on the congress' sidelines in Beijing, said the proposed change was necessary to "maintain enduring peace and stability in Hong Kong" following huge and sometimes violent pro-democracy rallies in 2019. Wang said Sunday the proposed rules would promote "Hong Kong's transition from chaos to governance," and were "completely constitutional." The draft decision was announced a day after dozens of democracy campaigners in the former British colony were jailed under a national security law passed during last year's parliamentary session. Legislation submitted to the Congress is nearly always approved overwhelmingly by the Communist Party-controlled chamber. READ: IMF lowers China growth forecast to 7.9% for 2021 The proposed rules drew swift international condemnation, with the United States and European Union saying China was violating guarantees of autonomy granted to Hong Kong during the transition from British rule in 1997. The move constitutes "a direct attack" on Hong Kong's freedoms, US State Department spokesman Ned Price said. Beijing has moved quickly to dismantle the financial hub's democratic pillars in response to huge protests that paralysed the city for months. Chinese officials have repeatedly said in recent weeks that only "staunch patriots" -- those loyal to the Communist Party -- should be involved in governing Hong Kong. Wang on Friday said "to love Hong Kong and to be a patriot are exactly the same thing."