Dr Anthony Fauci, the top White House advisor on COVID-19, says authorities are weighing a significant change in social-distancing rules to three feet, not six. AFP/Pool WASHINGTON - The United States' top pandemic advisor said that authorities were considering cutting social distancing rules to three feet (one metre), a move that would change a key tenet of the global fight against COVID-19. Anthony Fauci, a world-respected figure during the coronavirus crisis, said experts at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) were examining a Massachusetts study that found "no substantial difference" in covid cases in schools observing six-foot and three-foot rules. Asked on CNN's "State of the Union" show whether that meant that a three-foot separation was sufficient, Fauci replied, "It does, indeed." READ: Why the US has the highest COVID-19 death toll "The CDC is very well aware that data are accumulating making it look more like three feet are OK under certain circumstances," Fauci added. While cautioning that the CDC was still weighing the data and conducting its own tests, he said its findings would come "soon." The six-foot social distancing rule has been a widely-adopted global measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, along with mask-wearing and hand-washing. READ: US nears 500,000 COVID-19 deaths School officials across the world are under pressure to fully reopen as soon as safely possible, but many say the six-foot requirement makes it difficult without adding portable classrooms or shortening the school day. Many teachers unions have also insisted on six-foot distancing. The United States has the highest COVID-19 fatality toll in the world, now approaching 535,000, but it has seen case numbers and death rates fall this year. READ: US COVID outbreak may worsen after holidays: Fauci That trend, along with a vaccination program that has reached millions of arms -- including three million doses on just Saturday, Fauci said -- has spawned growing optimism. But with states like Texas and Maryland already easing their Covid rules, Fauci warned again against Americans letting down their guard too soon.