The first person to contract COVID-19 in Gauteng has watched her doctor receive his first dose of the vaccine. JOHANNESBURG - The first person to contract COVID-19 in Gauteng has watched her doctor receive his first dose of the vaccine. The province has opened an additional vaccination site at the Charlotte Maxeke hospital, which is where the patient was admitted last year. Glynn Mitchell was admitted to Charlotte Maxeke hospital in Johannesburg on 7 March 2020. Specialist physician Dr Jarrod Zamporini was the one who cared for her and now, he's received his first dose of the COVID-19 inoculation. For Dr Zamparini, the vaccine provides hope in the fight against COVID-19. READ: Mabuza visits Biovac Institute in Midrand Over 17,000 health workers have been vaccinated in Gauteng so far. The province hopes to reach 215,000 healthcare workers in the first phase of the vaccine rollout, though it cannot provide a date for doing so. Gauteng will receive another 18,000 doses plus of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine by next week Monday eNCA'S Manqoba Mchunu shares more details in the video.  Premier @David_Makhura arrives at @CharlotteMaxeke Academic Hospital to oversee Day 1 of the vaccination programme. The facility received 3900 doses on 1 March 2021. The first healthcare worker to get vaccinated is Dr. Jarrod Zamperini, Physician at Internal Medicine. pic.twitter.com/hTaM2jPDDz  WATCH: Premier @David_Makhura in conversation with Sister Dudu Mbokazi who is about to get vaccinated at @CharlotteMaxeke Academic Hospital. #WeChooseVaccination pic.twitter.com/LcYmELhdO8  Day 1 of the vaccination programme underway at @CharlotteMaxeke
The first healthcare worker to get vaccinated at the facility is Dr. Jarrod Zamperini, Physician at Internal Medicine. Dr. Zamperini received COVID-19 patient 0 on the 7th March 2020, Glynne Mitchell. pic.twitter.com/93urzDInSI  WATCH: Glynne Mitchell, the first patient who was admitted at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital on 7 March 2020 shares her experience and excitement to get vaccinated #WeChooseVaccination #VaccineforSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/pshjp5NOVX  [In Pictures]: Vaccination is underway at @CharlotteMaxeke Academic Hospital.
The facility received 3 900 doses on 1 March 2021 with more doses expected next week. Vaccination commenced today, 2 March 2021 with 109 vaccinators on site. #WeChooseVaccination pic.twitter.com/WQ7ZG5ACDU