Commemoration of the National Human Rights Day 2021 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered a virtual Human Rights Day address on Sunday. The president said the Constitution commits everyone to human rights values disregarded in the past. READ: SAHRC: Human rights violations increased in SA "It was at Sharpeville where president Nelson Mandela signed our democratic constitution into law 25 years ago, the Constitution is a shade, a shelter for all our people." "As we said at the time, the Constitution is one law for one nation, it commits not just government but every one of us to the values that were disregarded in the past, values of human rights, unfair treatment of tolerance, difference and of appreciation of our common basic humanity." #HumanRightsDay #2021YearofCharlotteMaxeke #HumanRightsDay2021 https://t.co/ifSK2Yn26S #HumanRightsDay #2021YearofCharlotteMaxeke #HumanRightsDay2021 https://t.co/ifSK2Yn26S #HumanRightsDay2021 https://t.co/d6xreJOEKE The president also spoke of the struggles faced by the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. "Our unity has been our greatest strength against this pandemic.   This unity is born of an understanding that the pandemic is a threat to all of us." The virus has struck down rich and poor, young and old, male and female, black and white, city dwellers and those who live in our rural areas, he said. READ: Coronavirus casts dark shadow over freedom celebrations "Sixty-one years ago our brave forebears took up the defence of the rights of our people, in the face of a harsh, cruel and unjust system that was exploitive and oppressive." "The heroes who protested at Sharpeville on the 21st of March 1960 took up the cause of liberty, freedom and human rights.   They did so not for themselves alone but for us all." The president said, "in the same way, the struggles we wage today are not for our cause alone. They are also for the men, women and children of tomorrow, so that they too may live in security, comfort, peace and freedom." We are commemorating #HumanRightsDay almost exactly a year since the coronavirus pandemic was declared a national disaster and we prepared for a nationwide lockdown to contain its spread.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik Over the course of the past year, our nation, like many others across the world, has endured great hardships.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik We have lost mothers, fathers, siblings, colleagues and friends to this deadly disease. It has taken a heavy toll on our economy and on our people’s livelihoods.
It has affected every aspect of our lives.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik We have had to give up basic human interactions that we once took for granted, like greeting each other with a handshake or a warm hug.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik But throughout, there has been an understanding that these restrictions were, and remain, necessary for the health and safety of us all.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik It has almost become difficult to remember how life was in our country just a year ago.
It was a life without masks, a life without social distancing and without restrictions on our daily lives and activities.https://t.co/yoPEBBElik He reflected on the events of 21 March and stated the nation should appreciate how far society has come from on that only cares for the few, at the expense of the majority. The president also reflected on the work of the government to meet the obligations of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. "Through the provision of care to the sick and social support to the vulnerable, we have worked together to give effect to the most important rights of our people – the right to life, to health and to dignity." "In recognition of the severe impact of the pandemic on people’s livelihoods, we have implemented social and income support measures to support struggling households, workers and businesses." "And in this, the next phase of our response to the pandemic, we are working to ensure that the COVID-19 vaccine is available to every person in our country who needs it," he said. READ: New batch of COVID-19 vaccines part of clinical trials Ramaphosa said the country has been able to weather the storm of the coronavirus through a culture of human rights, hard-won by activists in the liberation struggle. "We are now in the phase of reconstruction and recovery.   We are working to build a new economy that promises equal opportunity for all.   In doing so, let us remember that this is a struggle for all of us far greater than ourselves." "It is not a fight not for our own piece of bread, for our own job to be saved, or for our own health and safety.   It is a fight to preserve our common humanity," he said. Ramaphosa called for unity in working towards a better society than the one that preceded it: free of poverty, hunger, deprivation, and free from violence, particularly against women and children. "We must become a society where young people are able to realise their full potential – where they are not doomed to lives of despair and poverty because they cannot afford an education or because there are no jobs for them." "We must be a society of equal opportunity for all, regardless of one’s race, sex, sexual orientation or whether one is able-bodied or a person with disabilities." "We must be a society where quality health care, education and basic services are provided to our people regardless of whether they live in a village in a town or a city." "We must be a society where the land is owned not by a few, but where all have access to land for development, for progress and for self-upliftment." "Above all, we must be a society that recognises the dignity of every individual, and the role of every man, woman and child in building a better future," the president said. "Though we may have our differences on a number of issues, we have far more in common.   We share a common goal: to defeat the pandemic.   We have a common vision: of a better, more inclusive society. Above all, we have a common cause: that of a South Africa of equality, prosperity, freedom and human rights for all." Ramaphosa ended his address by saying, "to all South Africans, to all those who call this great beautiful country their home, I wish you a healthy, happy and peaceful Human Rights Day."