Strong winds are hampering firefighting efforts at the University of Cape Town. Over 250 firefighters have been deployed to battle the blaze. For the latest on the Cape Town fire we're joined by our reporter Ronald Masina. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Strong winds are hampering firefighting efforts at the University of Cape Town. Over 250 firefighters have been deployed to battle the blaze. Authorities have confirmed that a 35-year-old man has been arrested. JP Smith, Mayco Member for Safety and Security, said multiple residents contacted the emergency services, saying three men were moving through the bushes and starting fires. WATCH: Table Mountain Park fire "A resident from the area found an individual standing next to a fire. Law enforcement officers arrived on the scene and assisted in arresting that individual," Smith said. "He is currently in custody and a case of arson has been opened." The fire started at Table Mountain on Sunday morning and caused massive damage to property. Meanwhile, UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said Sunday's fire on campus still feels surreal. READ: Cape Town firefighters continue to battle blaze Classes have been suspended and students have been provided with alternative accommodation around the city. But the cost of the damage is not yet known. "It's very devastating, it's really unbelievable," Moholola said. "I drove past campus around midnight last [Sunday] evening looking at it, it felt like it's not happening. It's so surreal, it's almost like you could wake up and find out that it's a dream. "The timing could not be worse while we are in an ongoing pandemic that also has a financial impact on the university." Made with love : Our teams distributing hot meals to 4000 UCT students.
We send my thanks to the cook who has pulled all stop to prepare meals on time.
Join us in our disaster response initiative:
Donate via: https://t.co/YVsmxucVdC pic.twitter.com/gE0E0KS77F UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola spoke with eNCA's Jane Dutton. Courtesy of #DStv403