eNCA's Govan Whittles reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule remains in his position for now, as he continues to consult according to the party's treasurer-general, Paul Mashatile. He was speaking at the commemoration ceremony of late struggle stalwart, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. READ: ANC statement won't focus on individuals, says Mashatile Meanwhile, the ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the keynote address and took the opportunity to deny that the party's verging on collapse. Instead, Ramaphosa says he won't allow the ANC to be torn apart.
The ANC's secretary-general was conspicuously absent from the party's commemoration ceremony of Madikizela-Mandela. Ramaphosa said, "the secretary-general is obviously is not here because he is in Parys in the Free State and doing a whole lot of other things. You can see not all leaders, the national chair is not here, the deputy president, the deputy secretary-general... so it does not mean that, you know, everyone has to be wherever."
The ANC said Ace Magashule is expected to step aside, but for now he remains secretary-general. READ: Magashule to consult with former party leaders on step-aside verdict Mashatile said, "the secretary-general is not suspended. He is in his position. He has requested more time to do further consultation on matters that affect him and we're giving him that space."
The party's president said this doesn't mean that the ANC's attempts at unity will fail.
"The project of unity is what the ANC is about. It's not about to collapse. Actually, it's being turbo-charged to another higher level of vigor, of full commitment throughout the movement," Ramaphosa said.
Instead, the party says it will forge ahead with its renewal  and will take care not to exclude any of its members.
ANC Head of Organising Nomvula Mokonyane said, "so for any renovation that needs to happen, of course there will be some impact on the design, there will be some impact on the old that used to be there. But of importance is to perverse what is called the whole. So in all the attempts of trying to renew the ANC, to rebuild the ANC, what is of importance"