Health Minister Zweli Mkhize is announcing preparations for the second phase of the vaccine rollout.   JOHANNESBURG - If you're over 60, you can now register for the COVID-19 vaccination. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has opened the Electronic Vaccination Data System. The country is expecting 30 million Pfizer doses, with the first batch expected to arrive in May. "If you're 60 years or older you may register," Mkhize said. WATCH: Mkhize launches Electronic Vaccination Data System "Put the correct cellphone number and address where you live and your medical aid number, if you have one. "Remember, registration does not guarantee that you will be vaccinated immediately. "We will use the information provided to communicate about the vaccination program, when necessary. The data from the system assists us to allocate vaccines to the vaccine service points to ensure enough vaccines are available at those points." Mkhize said the details of the vaccinations will be captured digitally creating an electronic health record. READ: Vaccine registration for over 60s opens as 1,372 new COVID-19 cases recorded You will receive an SMS confirming you've been vaccinated and you'll receive a vaccination card. "To register go to https://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. You'll need a smartphone, tablet or computer. The welcome screen will guide you through the steps," the minister said. "It's important to follow instructions and put all the correct details. When you are finished, the system will send an sms to the phone number that you have provided. The sms will confirm that you are registered." Mkhize said you will then be in a queue to be vaccinated. When it's your turn to vaccinate, an sms will be sent with date and location. READ: 15 million people to receive Pfizer vaccine "If you put in the correct address, you will be sent to the vaccination centre closest to your home, some may be directed to your place of work." Mkhize has also urged the youth to help their elders register for the COVID-19 vaccination programme. People who are unable to register using the internet can go to their nearest vaccination centre with their ID/passport/asylum-seeking or refugee number and medical aid card if they have one. No one should be asked to pay for a vaccine at a site -- everyone should be getting vaccinated for free, including people with medical aid.