eNCA's Manqoba Mchunu and Nqobile Madlala report. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Thousands of holidaymakers have been making their way to various parts of the country to spend time with loved ones. READ: Authorities keeping a vigilant eye on Easter weekend traffic Last year, people weren't able to travel as the country's lockdown restrictions prohibited interprovincial travel. President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged South Africans to keep travelling to a minimum. This is also a time when large numbers of travellers will be on our roads, and I call on those who will be making journeys at this time to travel safely and obey the rules of the road. Thania Dhoogra is the Operational Manager at the N3 Toll Concession spoke with eNCA's Uveka Rangappa. Courtesy of #DStv403 Law enforcement is pulling out all the stops to reduce the carnage on the roads this Easter period. Traffic along the N3 between Gauteng and KwaZulu Natal is expected to peak on Thursday as people hit the road for the long weekend. READ: SA Lockdown | Off-site alcohol consumption prohibited for Easter This period is historically a deadly weekend. Thania Dhoogra, the Operational Manager at the N3 Toll Concession said, "the services from law enforcement, medical services, emergency services, everyone is fully deployed on the N3 toll route extending from Heidelberg down to Cedara if you need any assistance, the easiest way is to contact us on our 24/7 N3 helpline that is 0800 634 357 and we'll make sure the necessary people get out to it." eNCA's Manqoba Mchunu reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 The SA National Taxi Council has been actively involved in ensuring that their drivers adhere to the road rules. Santaco KZN chairperson Boy Zondi said, “we will be checking on the roadworthiness of the vehicle, overloads and also encouraging drivers and passengers to take breaks”. READ: Ramaphosa allows religious gatherings with increased numbers Peggy Nkonyeni, KZN Transport MEC, said, “here on the Mooi River southbound we have seen traffic volumes of more than 1,600 per hour which meanest that our Province is receiving great traction from visitors and we are welcoming them”. Those attempting to transport alcohol and drive under the influence will be in for a surprise Nkonyeni said, “we are working with the KZN liquor authority and all other stakeholders within law enforcement to ensure that everyone is arriving to their destination alive”. Authorities say their operations are yielding positive results and will continue to clamp down on wrongdoings on the road.