With cruise voyages from the United States mostly barred, it remains unclear when the industry will return to normal. AFP/Daniel Slim NEW YORK - After more than a year of frustration, diehard American fans of cruise vacations at last sense an end to their COVID-imposed stranding, and many are booking trips as soon as they can. Recent booking figures and strong pricing trends reported by Carnival Cruise Line and smaller operators offer proof of the pent-up demand for cruising, an especially hard-hit corner of the Covid-battered tourism industry. About half of the readers in a Cruise Critic survey are actively looking for trips, said the website, which has also reported recent accounts of trips selling out in a single day. READ: A year after Diamond Princess, cruise industry eyes return Still, as with so many other areas of the economy, much remains to be resolved before cruising returns to its pre-COVID-19 levels. Inoculations are becoming more widespread, but businesses are now navigating politically turbulent terrain over vaccine protocols in a debate that is starting to resemble the fights over face masks. Cruise travel was one of the early victims of the pandemic, and live television broadcasts of the arrival of liners carrying COVID-infected passengers were among the first signs of the national emergency the virus was to become. Cruise aficionados had been hopeful for an easing in the US regulatory stance as the pandemic ebbed, noting the industry's ability to undertake safe excursions outside the country and the increasing availability of vaccines. READ: Canada extends cruise ship ban to early 2022 But the CDC on 2 April gave little ground, pointing to the need for strict guidelines at a time when emerging COVID-19 variants are becoming widespread. "Cruising safely and responsibly during a global pandemic is difficult," the agency said, adding that "COVID-19 vaccination efforts will be critical in the safe resumption of passenger operations." Cruising giant Carnival has avoided backing a blanket vaccination requirement to travel, in part because vaccines are not available to everyone, including children, said Chief Executive Arnold Donald. READ: Carnival Cruises announces November cruise cancellation "We would encourage everyone to get a vaccine if available," Donald said, adding that he also respected "personal liberties" and that it was too soon to set brand policies around vaccines. The CDC did not respond to a request for comment. Surveys of cruise vacationers show almost no opposition to vaccination requirements. In the latest Cruise Critic survey, 86 percent said they will cruise if vaccinations are required, with only six percent declining and eight percent not sure.