US billionaire Jared Isaacman is set to blast off on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, in what will be the first all-civilian mission into Earth's orbit, which he will command and pay for himself. AFP/Patrick T. Fallon SAN FRANCISCO - Several hundred people have already booked their tickets and begun training for a spectacular voyage: a few minutes, or perhaps days, in the weightlessness of space. The mainly wealthy first-time space travellers are getting ready to take part in one of several private missions which are preparing to launch. The era of space tourism is on the horizon 60 years after Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first person in space. Two companies, Virgin Galactic and Blue Origin, are building spacecraft capable of sending private clients on suborbital flights to the edge of space lasting several minutes. Glenn King is the director of spaceflight training at the National Aerospace Training and Research Center, a private company based in Pennsylvania which has already trained nearly 400 future Virgin Galactic passengers for their trips. "The oldest person I trained was 88 years old," King told AFP. The training programme lasts two days -- a morning of classroom instruction and tests in a centrifuge. This involves putting the trainee in a single-seat cockpit at the end of a eight-meter-long arm and spinning them around to simulate gravitational force, or G force. A medical team is on hand at all times. - 'Enjoy the view' - Photograph of Earth taken by astronaut Nick Hague from the International Space Station in 2019. AFP The first launch of only civilians, baptized "Inspiration4," is scheduled to take place in September. The American billionaire Jared Isaacman has fully paid for a trip powered by a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket that will take him and three passengers on a three-day flight in low Earth orbit. In January 2022, the company Axiom Space plans to send a former astronaut and three newcomers to the International Space Station. It eventually plans trips to the ISS every six months. Seven "space tourists" visited the space station between 2001 and 2009. A company called Space Adventures served as the intermediary for those flights and has partnered with SpaceX to send four customers in orbit around the Earth next year. A Japanese billionaire, Yusaku Maezawa, has reserved a flight on SpaceX's "Starship" in 2023 and is inviting eight other people to come along for the ride.