Police declined to confirm the arrest of 25-year-old Saki Sudo TOKYO - The young widow of an ageing Japanese real estate mogul was arrested Wednesday on suspicion of murdering the self-described "Don Juan" just months into their marriage, local media said, citing police sources. Kosuke Nozaki, who boasted in his autobiography of spending millions of dollars on young, beautiful women, died in 2018 of acute poisoning aged 77. His widow Saki Sudo, now 25, allegedly killed Nozaki by making him take a large amount of an unspecified stimulant. Some reports said it had been mixed into a drink, as no needle marks were found on his body. Local police declined to confirm the arrest when contacted by AFP. Nozaki, who ran a real estate business, liquor sales company and money-lending enterprise, claimed in his best-selling autobiography that he had spent three billion yen ($27.5 million) on wooing 4,000 women. "The reason I make money is to date attractive women," he wrote in the 2016 book titled "Don Juan of Kishu", after the region in western Japan where he lived. "I have no interest in cars or houses. Instead, I have a boundless desire to have sex with beautiful women," he said in the book, which also included chapters on how to seduce college students and cabin crew. READ: Russian man 'trapped' on Chinese reality TV show finally voted out Nozaki built his fortune from nothing, selling everything from metal scraps to condoms to liquor, according to the website of the book's publisher. In his will, he said he wanted to donate 1.3 billion yen to the city of Tanabe in Wakayama prefecture, where he had lived. But because half of his estate goes to his widow under civil law, the city had been in talks with Sudo about splitting the money, the Sankei Shimbun reported. Sudo had allegedly been searching for information online about drugs before her husband's death, according to newspaper reports. In a column Nozaki wrote for the Gendai Business website in 2018 -- months before his death -- he said he was "confident of becoming happy" by marrying Sudo, even though people had warned him she was probably after his money. He said they met at Tokyo's Haneda airport when he tripped over on purpose to get Sudo, who he said was a model, to help him. In previous columns, Nozaki said he had started to become well known in Japan after a 2016 incident in which a 27-year-old woman he met and dated stole 60 million yen worth of cash and goods from him.