Executive director and editor at the Bhekisisa Centre for Health Journalism, Mia Malan spoke with eNCA's Anlie Hattingh. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Shock and heartbreak continue to reverberate countrywide at the passing of Dr Sindi Van Zyl. She succumbed to COVID-19 complications after battling the virus for a month. The 45-year-old doctor is survived by her husband and two children. READ: Dr Sindi Van Zyl passes on Dr Sindi has been described as non-judgmental and accessible. And that's how the editor at the Bhekisisa Centre for Health Journalism, Mia Malan, remembers her. She was well known for her health and other advice on radio and social media. Just this week, South Africans raised over R1-million for her medical fees. You will be sorely missed...you were a GOOD person through and through Sindi .
A life wonderfully lived touched sooo many people.
Condolences to the family.
You exuded love and were loved in return.
Rest in peace https://t.co/3ERh8Jjhs0 pic.twitter.com/zi76O9TGtT Dr Sindi’s passing leaves all of us cold and sad. She lived an exemplary life of giving, selflessness and grace. To her family, especially her kids she - condolences. We share your loss. pic.twitter.com/vPON26Ovv1 My heart just dropped after finding out Dr Sindi has passed away. May your beautiful soul rest in internal peace. #RIPDrSindi pic.twitter.com/Uy0FEmPd8a When my tenant witnessed the deaths of her friend & children in a car accident, Dr Sindi arranged counselling for her & even paid for a session.
COVID has dealt an utterly cruel blow. We must support Manie & their kids the Caramellos #RIPDrSindi pic.twitter.com/OKjskHfxZI I was in a restaurant when I heard the news. I broke down like a little girl. May the ancestors be with the Caramelos at this trying time. Sindi has done so much for me. I’m sure I speak for many people. What a beautiful human! SADAG is heartbroken to hear of the passing of our beloved Dr Sindi van Zyl this morning. Our deepest condolences and love to her husband, her beautiful children, her family, friends and colleagues. She was an incredible force for good, with a good heart and generous spirit. pic.twitter.com/XHobD6w62y