eNCA anchors Jane Dutton and Tumelo Mothotoane eNCA JOHANNESBURG -  eNCA is South Africa’s most-watched independent news channel. The value of our news content and the experience and expertise of our team is critical when it comes to maintaining our leading edge. Our viewers are at the heart of everything we do and the fine-tuning of content and changes to our line-up is aligned with our viewer interests and trends. eNCA has refreshed its anchor line-up, bringing you some of the best news storytellers in the business who are committed to sharing top stories, breaking news and no-holds-barred interviews without fear or favour. Here are the eNCA schedule changes for Monday to Friday: The South African Morning brings a start to your day between 6 am and 9 am with the latest news and previews for the day. Tumelo Mothotoane and Jane Dutton bring you unique, interesting and entertaining interviews as well as sport and weather updates. eNCA anchor Uveka Rangappa eNCA Uveka Rangappa comes in from 9 am to 11 am with NewsLink, and will be connecting you to your world with up-to-date news and focused interviews, bringing you the back-stories behind the news headlines. eNCA anchor Thulasizwe Simelane eNCA Thulasizwe Simelane offers an authoritative, contextual and probing guide to breaking news, developing stories, newsmaker interviews and analysis that puts your world in perspective in All Angles between 11 am and 1 pm. eNCA anchor Dan Moyane eNCA The Midday View is anchored by Dan Moyane from 1 pm until 3 pm.  He will bring you closer to the world with the latest top stories, breaking news, live reports and views from across South Africa and beyond. eNCA anchor Shahan Ramkissoon eNCA We invite you to follow The Lead with Shahan Ramkissoon from 3 pm to 5 pm as he asks tough questions and demands answers of current newsmakers. He also shares live updates on the day’s top stories. eNCA anchor Sally Burdett eNCA South Africa Tonight from 5 pm to 8 pm with Sally Burdett unpacks the top stories of the day and looks at how it will affect you. These include breaking news and interviewing guests in South Africa and abroad. The new show line up is effective from Monday, 5 April 2021. Tune into DStv403 and enca.com for breaking news, top stories as we keep you informed, delighted and educated.