With a month to go until his corruption case, former President Jacob Zuma's legal team has dropped him. Mabuza Attorneys have filed their intention to withdraw as his legal representatives, with the High Court in Pietermaritzburg. So what are the implications for the prosecution of this withdrawal? The NPA says it remains ready to proceed with the trial on May 17. #eNCA​ Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Will former president Jacob Zuma ever see his day in court? His legal team has filed their intention to withdraw as his representatives with the High Court in Pietermaritzburg. Zuma is expected to appear before the court in a month's time on corruption charges. One attorney says there could be a different reason why Zuma’s legal team dumped him. READ: Zuma dumped by legal team Founder and Director of Zikalala Attorneys, Advocate Mpumelelo Zikalala explained: "The common reasons would be, firstly a difference of opinion in the legal strategy that must be followed in providing a defence. "They may differ where the client may say, "I'm not willing to follow the strategy that you have come up with, I believe there is another way in which we will be able to achieve the defence that you are looking for, hence I've [the client] lost confidence in the legal services or in the legal opinion that you [legal representation] is providing me." READ: SCA rules state must recover millions spent on Zuma's legal fees Zikalala said the second reason could be that of money. "The client would then say, "I don't have money to pay you any more" it's quite expensive to have both [the] advocate and the instructing attorney be at court. "If you look at the number of days in which the matter has been set, it can easily set you back between R15,000 and R20,000 per day. Now the question would be does the former president have that amount of money to spend on legal fees and if the answer is no, then definitely he would need a sponsor because even legal aid would not be able to come in under these circumstances. Legal aid has its criteria in which one has to qualify so it's not a free-for-all kind of service."