Demonstrators protest near the Hennepin County Courthouse in Minneapolis, Minnesota. AFP/Scott Olson/Getty Images MINNEAPOLIS - Jurors on Monday began mulling the fate of the ex-Minneapolis policeman accused of killing George Floyd, a death that sparked a nationwide reckoning on racism and that prosecutors called a "shocking abuse of authority." "You must be absolutely fair," Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill said in his final instructions to the 12-member jury hearing the case against former officer Derek Chauvin. "Consider and weigh the evidence and apply the law." Chauvin is charged with murder and manslaughter over Floyd's death, which sparked protests against racial injustice around the world and has become a landmark test of police accountability in the United States. READ: George Floyd sought help with his 'very last breath': prosecutor Chauvin was captured on video kneeling on Floyd's neck, as the latter was pinned facedown and handcuffed on the ground for more than nine minutes complaining, "I can't breathe." In his instructions to the jury, the judge touched on the significance of the case, which comes amid heightened tensions fueled by other police killings. Factfile on the George Floyd murder trial. AFP/Gal Roma "You must not let bias, prejudice, passion, sympathy or public opinion influence your decision," Cahill said. "You must not consider any consequences or penalties that might follow from your verdict." READ: Jury in George Floyd murder trial to hear closing arguments Prosecutors, in closing arguments to the jury, which will be sequestered during deliberations, repeatedly showed the harrowing video seen by millions around the world. "This case is exactly what you thought when you saw it first, when you saw that video," prosecutor Steve Schleicher told the jury. "You can believe your eyes," Schleicher said. "It's exactly what you knew, it's what you felt in your gut, it's what you now know in your heart." READ: Prosecution, defence rest in George Floyd murder trial "This wasn't policing, this was murder," Schleicher said. "Nine minutes and 29 seconds of shocking abuse of authority. "The defendant is guilty of all three counts. And there's no excuse." Defence attorney Eric Nelson told the jury they need to look at Chauvin's actions "from the perspective of a reasonable police officer." READ: Chauvin chooses not to testify at George Floyd murder trial "He did not purposefully use unlawful force," Nelson said. "This was not a neck restraint. This was not a chokehold." Nelson said Floyd's heart disease and drug use were factors in his death. "They're trying to convince you that Mr Floyd's heart disease played no role," he said. "I'm not suggesting this was an overdose death," Nelson said, "but it is a preposterous notion to say that this did not come into play here." Nelson urged the jury to find Chauvin not guilty: "The state has failed to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt."