The tone from Tokyo 2020 organisers and Olympic officials is still one of confidence. AFP/Philip Fong TOKYO - The Olympic flame is on its way across Japan and athletes around the world are ramping up training, but 100 days before Tokyo 2020 opens, organisers still face monumental challenges. Virus surges, including in Japan, are playing havoc with preparations and fuelling uncertainty about whether the Games can, or should, happen this summer. The torch relay has been pared back, overseas fans will be barred for the first time and rising infections mean Tokyo and several other parts of Japan are under new restrictions. READ: Tokyo tightens virus measures nearly 100 days before Olympics Despite that, the tone from organisers and Olympic officials is still one of confidence, with public pronouncements focused on how and not whether the Games will happen. They have some cause for optimism. The Olympic torch relay kicked off in Fukushima last month, albeit with spectators barred from the launch ceremony, and vaccination programmes are under way in many countries, with some athletes already inoculated. READ: Olympic stars to watch in Tokyo Japan won't require Olympic participants to be vaccinated, but the International Olympic Committee is encouraging jabs and has secured Chinese-made doses for athletes in countries without access to them. In Japan, sports events are still on, with crowd numbers capped, and fans have become used to virus rules that will be implemented at this summer's Games, including a ban on cheering. Despite the problems, Tokyo 2020 organisers say they are confident "we will be able to deliver a safe and secure Games." READ: China defies boycott calls with Beijing 2022 Olympic tests They have released "playbooks" outlining anti-virus measures, which will be updated later this month, hoping to allay the fears of a public still largely opposed to holding the Games this year. Tens of thousands of athletes and other Olympic participants arriving from overseas will be able to skip quarantine, and are not required to show proof of vaccination. But athletes will be asked to limit their movements, stay only at the Olympic village during their events and face regular virus testing. READ: Tokyo Olympics chiefs prepare to resume 'safe' test events Overseas fans have already been barred from the Games, and a decision on domestic spectator numbers could come in April. Still, the atmosphere will be far from the usual rowdy celebrations, and it remains unclear how strong demand for tickets will be when they finally go back on sale.