In the fast-paced ICT environment, businesses need to constantly adapt to suit individual, localised audiences. This means finding a balance between global and local in all operations, taking into consideration the scalability of the next-generation workplace. This scale will provide the technology and environment that businesses need in order to grow. MiRO understands this and its expansion into Africa has focused on consistency of its brand across all the African countries. It supports and ensures that the experience with the MiRO brand, as well as the services and solutions it offers, are suited to the global environment. Finding a trusted, international partner with the reach into Africa is not easy. This proudly South African company has been serving the local and African market for 17 years and is one of the leading distributors of broadband wireless, data networking, SDWAN, WiFi, IoT, physical security, VoIP and IP video products – and its African footprint continues to grow. While MiRO partners include global brands such as Ubiquiti Networks, Grandstream, Tenda, Radwin, Ring, Siklu, MikroTik, Uniview, Cambium Networks and TP-Link, the ‘local-is-lekker’ maxim holds true and South Africa has proven its ability to be able to create and manufacture world-class products and services. MiRO’s local portfolio includes cutting edge solutions from BFR Digital, Clearline, Deltec, Forbatt, Acconet and Mean Well. This combination of local and international partnerships means that MiRO can empower Africa’s service providers, technology integrators and resellers to connect consumers, the public and private sectors through its best-of-breed, cutting-edge solutions. READ: Small businesses lagging behind with technology The expert MiRO team has the knowledge of local environments to assist service providers in African countries to deliver scalable IP convergence solutions specific to the situation, as, when and where they are needed. To add to any ISP or reseller arsenal, MiRO’s online ecommerce store not only has a plethora of information available 24/7, but makes it easy and convenient for partners to purchase online as and when they need to. Using miro.co.za, users can build their own quotes, view stock availability at all the branches and use real-time order tracking to accurately plan inventory and installations. Supporting this, the MiRO technical and sales team is just a click away. Knowledge sharing is another core MiRO value. To put the power of knowledge in the hands of its clients, MiRO Academy was established as the vehicle through which the company offers top-notch, comprehensive IP convergence training. READ: The role and importance of the training function MiRO Academy is an online learning platform where individual and business users can register for courses. The Academy means access to smart tutorials and hosts an ever-growing range of custom-developed training courses. There is zero-to-hero basic training on the range of networking technologies, as well as internationally certified training from multi-national vendors. Free webinars on product and technology developments are also readily available on MiRO’s Academy platform so any of MiRO’s users can remain a step ahead through continuous learning, as and when it suits them. Thousands of IT professionals have already gained the knowledge to embrace and implement the spectrum of exciting new technologies via both MiRO’s instructor-led classroom training and the Academy. Take technology to Africa’s people by taking advantage of the products and services MiRO offers. Visit MiRO’s website here: https://miro.co.za/.