File: A stockbroker watches the latest share prices during a trading session. AFP/Rizwan Tabassum NEW YORK - Major stock markets pulled back from record levels on Monday while focus was firmly on the game of football as Europe's wealthiest clubs seek to form a breakaway Super League. Among the dozen football clubs looking to form their own competition, shares in the publicly-listed Italian side Juventus and England's Manchester United both jumped. "The financial incentive for the clubs is plain to see, with a multi-billion dollar package at the heart of the scheme, albeit it would forever break the integrity of the club game," said Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at Markets.com. Shares of Juventus were up 17.5 percent near the closing bell on the Milan stock exchange, and Manchester United closed New York trading with a gain of nearly seven percent. "A quieter start to the week has seen stock markets drift back on a lack of news, with only the goings-on in European football providing some interest," said Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at online trading platform IG. READ: UEFA chief hits out at 'greediness, narcissism' of clubs over Super League plans Wall Street's main indices closed lower on profit taking, with the Dow off 0.4 percent and S&P down 0.5 percent after both set new peaks on Friday and posted their fourth consecutive weekly gains. Investors are poised for a big week of earnings reports with strong results from Coca-Cola released ahead of reports from Netflix, American Airlines and others. "Each time the market goes high, it steps back and marches on to new highs. That is a sign of the market basically correcting itself a little bit, pulling back on intraday basis," Peter Cardillo of Spartan Capital Securities told AFP. European markets ended mostly lower in afternoon trading, with the DAX pulling away from a record set last week and the FTSE 100 holding onto 7,000 points -- a level it broke above last week for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic -- only by a whisker. But in Asia, Shanghai finished up 1.5 percent and Hong Kong ended 0.5 percent higher, despite China's first-quarter economic growth data skating under market expectations at the end of last week.