The town in the Cabo Delgado province was attacked by Islamic militants. One survivor is asking for assistance for those left behind. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The brother of a South African man who died in Mozambique last month is pleading for assistance for thousands of people still stuck in Palma. The town in the Cabo Delgado province was attacked by Islamic militants. Dozens of people died and those who could not escape are trapped there without food and other supplies. Wesley Nel, his brother Adrian, and his dad Greg Knox were trapped in the Amarula Hotel without food for three days and without any weapons to protect themselves. READ: SA mother mourns son killed in Mozambique attack Adrian was shot twice but continued driving to save the lives of his brother and father. Adrian's wife and three children have been left without an income. "We trying to raise the money to keep them in the schools and would also like to send them to university both me and my brother never got the opportunity and that was the one thing he was really strong about was his kids gotta go to university." Nel estimates about 25,000 people are still in Palma without supplies, and he wants to help them. READ: Mozambique Conflict: 43 South Africans accounted for "When we left there we hadn't eaten for five days when we evacuated it's now been almost 20 days that some of these people, they are starving and they are abandoned," he said.
Nel is asking the South African public to contact him about non-perishable food donations, which South Africans will then transport from Pemba to Palma via the coast. * eNCA's Nadine Theron reports.  #Mozambique: Wesley Nel, the brother of the South African hero who died while saving lives while fleeing from militarists in Mozambique, says he gets flashbacks when he hears helicopters or loud noises. Adrian Nel was shot while driving an escape vehicle but did not stop.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/jXEREyv0Ys  #Mozambique: "If it wasn’t for him (Adrian Nel) potentially the next day we would’ve been slaughtered. The next day they attacked another camp and they beheaded all of the people there so he definitely saved us" - Wesley Nel on the escape mission that claimed his brother.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/lVU8IeNhgo  #Mozambique: After 3 days of waiting to be rescued the group at Hotel Amarula in Palma decided to escape the siege in a convoy. Out of the 17 vehicles only 7 cars made it out, and in them 7 people died. Thanks to Adrian Nel, his dad, Greg Knox, Wesley and others survived.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/5DD7khf6Sq  #Mozambique: Wesley Nel says the escape convoy was his brave brother Adrian's idea. Adrian Nel also risked his life to retrieve a firearm from an abandoned military vehicle to protect the group.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/KuzILCBXwU  #Mozambique: Adrian Nel’s wife and three children have been left without an income. Wesley started a campaign to keep the children in school and send them to university one day, something the brothers never had the opportunity to do. Donate here: https://t.co/eezWqzhoRa@eNCA pic.twitter.com/6F89Hm7b6e 