Frances McDormand (L) won the Oscar for best actress in "Nomadland" -- her third acting win -- but also shared the film's award for best picture as one of its producers with director Chloe Zhao (R). AFP/Chris Pizzello LOS ANGELES - "Nomadland" star Frances McDormand joined Hollywood's most elite tier Sunday with her third acting Oscar -- for a characteristically unglamorous portrayal of a grieving widow living in an old van. McDormand becomes only the seventh actor with triple Academy Awards, and the fourth woman after Meryl Streep, Ingrid Bergman and Katharine Hepburn, who stands alone at the pinnacle with four Oscars. She also shared the best picture Oscar for the film, as she was one of its producers. READ: 'Nomadland' director Zhao makes history at unique pandemic-era Oscars "I have no words. My voice is in my sword. We know the sword is our work. And I like work. Thank you for knowing that. And thanks for this," McDormand told the limited audience at the Oscars venue at Union Station in Los Angeles. The role of Fern is the latest in a series of jaded, tough and long-suffering women portrayed by the 63-year-old McDormand, who has forged a distinctive career over decades of mainly indie movies. Her character in "Nomadland" is reeling from the loss of her husband and their former hometown of Empire, Nevada, which even lost its zip code as the local drywall plant's closure forced the entire population to leave. READ: Zhao 'excited' for Oscars as 'Nomadland' wins at Spirit Awards Fern's plight is a proxy for thousands of Americans left on the fringes of the society by the Great Recession of the late 2000s -- and, more recently, the pandemic. "It's a great document of a very specific time in our world," McDormand has said. "Everybody's hitting the road." McDormand's first Oscar, for best actress, came back in 1997 for her depiction of Marge Gunderson, a pregnant police officer in "Fargo," which was directed by her husband, Joel Coen, and his brother Ethan. And her most recent Academy Award came just three years ago for her role as a mother seeking to avenge the rape and murder of her daughter in "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" -- the last time McDormand appeared on the big screen.