The electronic billboard at Piccadilly Circus displays a tribute to Britain's Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh in central London on April 9, 2021 after the announcement of the duke's death. LONDON - Current and former world leaders joined a chorus of condolences from around the world following the death of Prince Philip on Friday at the age of 99. Here are some reactions: Britain British Prime Minister Boris Johnson hailed Philip's "extraordinary life and work", sending his condolences to Queen Elizabeth after her husband's death was announced. Johnson said the Duke of Edinburgh "earned the affection of generations" at home, in the Commonwealth and across the world. "We give thanks, as a nation and a kingdom, for the extraordinary life and work of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh," he added. Former prime minister Tony Blair hailed Philip's public service, calling him "a man of foresight, determination and courage". "He was often way ahead of his time in protection of the environment, in reconciliation between religious faiths," he said, highlighting his environmental work. Ireland Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin said he was "saddened" by Philip's death, adding: "Our thoughts and prayers are with Queen Elizabeth and the people of the United Kingdom." Canada Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called Philip a "a man of great purpose and conviction, who was motivated by a sense of duty to others", in a tribute on behalf of his Commonwealth nation. He will be "fondly remembered as a constant in the life of our Queen" he said. Australia Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison ordered flags to be flown at half-mast in his country after the passing of Philip, who he said "embodied a generation that we will never see again". "The Commonwealth family joins together in sorrow and thanksgiving for the loss and life of Prince Philip. God bless from all here in Australia," said the leader of the Commonwealth nation. Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta said the Duke of Edinburgh had been a unifying figure, calling him a "great man". "His Royal Highness Prince Philip has been a towering symbol of family values and the unity of the British people as well as the entire global community." Philip's wife Elizabeth became queen in 1952 while on a trip to Kenya when her father passed away. India Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to Philip's military career and community work, saying his "thoughts are with the British people and the Royal family". "He had a distinguished career in the military and was at the forefront of many community service initiatives. May his soul rest in peace," the leader of the Commonwealth country tweeted. Germany Germany's Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called Philip a loyal servant to the United Kingdom who "lived a long life of service to his country". "We are deeply saddened by the loss of His Royal Highness Prince Philip. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the Royal family, the people of the Commonwealth, and all who loved him dearly," Maas tweeted. Russia Russian President Vladimir Putin praised Philip and wished Elizabeth "courage and mental fortitude in the face of a grievous and irreparable loss". "He rightfully enjoyed respect among the British and internationally," a statement from the Kremlin cited Putin as saying. European Union EU Commission head Ursula von der Leyen said on Twitter she was "saddened to hear of the passing of His Royal Highness Prince Philip". "I would like to extend my sincere sympathy to Her Majesty The Queen, the Royal Family and the people of the United Kingdom on this very sad day." Israel Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed his "deepest condolences" the the Royal family. "Prince Philip was the consummate public servant and will be much missed in Israel and across the world," he wrote. The Netherlands Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte sent his condolences to the British PM after hearing the "sad news". "Our thoughts and sympathy are with Britain’s Royal Family and the British people at this time of mourning." Sweden Swedish King Carl XVI Gustaf said he was "deeply saddened" to learn of Philip's death, calling him "a great friend of our family for many years, a relation which we have deeply valued". "His service to his country will remain an inspiration to us all," he said in a statement. Belgium King Philippe and Queen Mathilde of Belgium tweeted that they were "deeply saddened" by Philip's passing. "We wish to express our sincere condolences to Her Majesty the Queen, the British Royal Family, as well as to the people of the United Kingdom." Ukraine Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky mourned Britain's Prince Philip on Twitter, saying his death was an "irreparable loss". "Ukraine grieves together with Great Britain. Prince Philip lived a great life to serve his people and to be an example for the future generations". US Former US president George W. Bush said Philip had represented his country "with dignity", honouring his "remarkable life". "He devoted himself to worthy causes and to others," Bush said in a statement. "He represented the United Kingdom with dignity and brought boundless strength and support to the sovereign."