Due to COVID-19 and busy lifestyles, fewer people are dining out, and more are eating in. Pixabay/Edgar JOHANNESBURG - South Africa is known the world over as being a melting pot of cultures and cuisines. The country is home to world-class restaurants and award-winning chefs but, due to COVID-19 and busy lifestyles, fewer people are dining out, and more are eating in. The unprecedented coronavirus pandemic forced restaurants across the country to close for a significant period or indefinitely, while others have chosen to shift business models to support a take-out and delivery-only service. READ: Cape Town gets new local-is-lekker food app There are a number of food delivery apps available to local users - from the newest Checkers Sixty60 born during COVID-19 to UberEats as well as Mr D Food, both of which are popular countrywide. And while they provide a quick-fix to fill the gap, there is little on offer for those with more discerning taste buds. According to Statista, the online food delivery segment in South Africa was projected to reach R1,4-billion this year, with global statistics indicating restaurant take-out and delivery has taken a bite out of dine-in traffic, growing 300 percent faster over the past six years. It is this conundrum that inspired the birth of CloudChef that supports local chefs who are dishing up and delivering fine, healthy, fuss-free meals and gastronomic delights for home enjoyment. READ: The taste buds have spoken: SA’s favourite foods rated from best to worst “Looking at all the cyber initiatives related to staying at home, CloudChef offers restaurant-quality dishes at affordable prices so that you don’t have to leave your house to indulge in expertly-crafted, wholesome, world-class eating,” says Louis Buys, CEO of The Delta, a tech company that specialises in building ventures and start-ups. Convenience is driving this trend, especially with millennials - fast becoming a larger portion of the consumer population - who want food delivered wherever and whenever they want, at the click of a button. Based on current growth, Statista reveals that the number of users in the South African platform-to-consumer delivery segment is predicted to reach 9,6 million by 2024. READ: Restaurant owners say Uber Eats eating into their profits In addition to this; the enforced lockdown, social distancing and trade restrictions that accompany the coronavirus pandemic have no doubt indicated that regular dine-in experiences are the new normal. It has also caused stranded chefs to offer online cuisine classes to help beat the COVID-19 lockdown blues. According to the World Health Organization, food delivery is a far safer option than dining out when it comes to lowering the risks of contracting COVID-19 - providing the packing and delivery of meals is in line with strict hygiene protocols.