Manchester United's Portuguese midfielder Bruno Fernandes celebrates after scoring their second goal during the English Premier League football match between Leicester City and Manchester United at King Power Stadium in Leicester, central England on December 26, 2020. CARL RECINE / POOL / AFP LONDON - Manchester United will face Liverpool in the blockbuster tie of the FA Cup fourth round, while League Two Cheltenham host Manchester City. Liverpool and United will clash for two consecutive weekends with the top two also facing off in the Premier League on Sunday. READ: Kaizer Chiefs in 14th place after suffering 4th defeat National League North side Chorley's reward for their victory over a depleted Derby was a home tie with Premier League Wolves. Chorley manager Jamie Vermiglio told BBC Sport: "That's what we really wanted, Premier League opposition, great. "And there's a bit of history because, in 1986, Chorley played against Wolves at home and beat them 3-0, so we just need to do that again." Should Chorley pull off another upset, they could face holders Arsenal in the fifth round. WATCH: Radebe, Mokoena talk on Tau's move to England League Two Crawley, who thrashed Leeds 3-0 in the third round, travel to Bournemouth. The fourth round ties will be played across the weekend of January 22 to 25 with the fifth round taking place between February 9 to 11. Liverpool's Portuguese striker Diogo Jota celebrates scoring his team's third goal during the English Premier League football match between Liverpool and Arsenal at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on September 28, 2020.  FA Cup fourth-round draw: Manchester United v Liverpool Cheltenham v Manchester City Bournemouth v Crawley Swansea v Nottingham Forest Southampton or Shrewsbury v Arsenal Barnsley v Norwich Chorley v Wolves Millwall v Bristol City Brighton v Blackpool Wycombe v Tottenham Fulham v Burnley Sheffield United v Plymouth Chelsea v Luton Stockport or West Ham v Doncaster Brentford v Leicester Everton v Sheffield Wednesday  Fifth-round draw: Manchester United or Liverpool v Stockport/West Ham/Doncaster Fulham or Burnley v Bournemouth or Crawley Sheffield United or Plymouth v Millwall or Bristol City Chorley or Wolves v Southampton/Shrewsbury/Arsenal Barnsley or Norwich v Chelsea or Luton Everton or Sheffield Wednesday v Wycombe or Tottenham Swansea or Nottingham Forest v Cheltenham or Manchester City Brentford or Leicester v Brighton or Blackpool