The South African Weather Service is warning of extreme rainfall in parts of Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. Tropical storm Eloise is expected to make landfall in Mozambique on Saturday. Climate change expert Bob Scholes from Wits University spoke to Uveka Rangappa. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Tropical storm Eloise is still intensifying over the Mozambique Channel and expected to strengthen into a Tropical Cyclone on Friday night. Eloise already started to affect the coastal regions of Mozambique (between Angoche and Beira) with heavy rain, rough seas and strong winds as it is moving parallel to the coast, towards Beira. The expected Tropical Cyclone Eloise is predicted to make landfall near Beira early on Saturday morning, bringing more heavy rain over an already flooded coastline. READ: Storm could bring rain to Lowveld Observations are showing Beira has already received more than 150mm over the past few days and Eloise is expected to dump more than 200mm of rain over the coastal town as she makes landfall and moves southwest overland this weekend. After landfall, the system will rapidly weaken into a depression and reach the Limpopo River Valley by Sunday. Accumulated rainfall shows totals of 100mm to 200mm are possible in parts of Mozambique, southern Zimbabwe and eastern South Africa through the weekend into Monday. The South African Weather Service has issued an L4 Yellow warning for disruptive rain possible over Mpumalanga and Limpopo on Sunday into Monday. Latest accumulated rainfall showing HEAVY rain over north-eastern South Africa on Sunday into Monday
The South African Weather Service has issued a L4 Yellow WARNING for disruptive rain which could lead to localised flooding over Mpumalanga and Limpopo.#eNCA pic.twitter.com/qO3Vtgm0B4 DISCUSSION: "Overland Tropical Depression ("Eloise) will move over border of Zimbabwe and Limpopo in the early hours of Sunday, 24 January" "This will result in heavy rain with flooding in the eastern and northern parts of Limpopo as well as the eastern parts of Mpumalanga, where between 80-120mm expected in 24 hours, but more than 150mm in places in Vhembe District Municipality." SAWS #SevereTropicalStorm #Eloise still intensifying in Mozambican Channel; becoming #TropicalCyclone Friday night; making landfall near Beira Saturday morning.
Rainfall totals of 100mm - 200mm possible in parts of central Moz, southern Zim and eastern SA through the weekend.#eNCA pic.twitter.com/LuMV6gUrV3