Joe Biden (L), flanked by incoming US First Lady Jill Biden is sworn in as the 46th US President by Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. WASHINGTON - Democrat Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States on Wednesday, ending the tumultuous four-year term in the White House of Republican Donald Trump. Biden called for "unity" and pledged to be a president for "all Americans" at his inauguration in Washington Wednesday, but warned of the challenges ahead as he takes on multiple crises. Speaking at the US Capitol just two weeks after it was stormed by an armed mob supporting his predecessor Donald Trump, Biden declared: "This is America's day, this is democracy's day. A day of history and hope." Members of the National Guard and law enforcement gather near the U.S. Capitol before the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris on January 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. AFP/Nathan Howard The West Front of the US Capitol is prepared for the inauguration of US President-elect Joe Biden on January 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. Guests and spectators attend the 59th Presidential Inauguration for President Joe Biden at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Jan. 20, 2021. AFP/Susan Walsh President-elect Joe Biden (L) and Jill Biden (C) with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris (R) arrive at the East Front of the US Capitol for his inauguration ceremony to be the 46th President of the United States in Washington, DC, on January 20, 2021. Kamala Harris is sworn in as U.S. Vice President as her husband Doug Emhoff looks on at the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. Joe Biden (L), flanked by incoming US First Lady Jill Biden is sworn in as the 46th US President by Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. Kamala Harris (L) bumps fists with US President-elect Joe Biden (R) after being sworn in as the 49th US Vice President on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. AFP/Jonathan Ernst US President Joe Biden is hugged by his children, Hunter and Ashley, after he was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. AFP/Erin SCHAFF US President Joe Biden (C) delivers his Inauguration speech after being sworn in as the 46th US President on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. AFP/Patrick Semansky US President Joe Biden speaks after being sworn in as the 46th President of the US during the 59th Presidential Inauguration at the US Capitol in Washington, January 20, 2021. AFP/Patrick Semansky Lady Gaga sings the National Anthem at the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. AFP/Alex Wong (From L) US former President George W Bush, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, US former President Barack Obama and his wife Michelle Obama arrive to the West Front of the US Capitol for the Inauguration of Joe Biden. AFP/Caroline Brehman Jennifer Lopez sings during the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol on January 20, 2021 in Washington, DC. During today's inauguration ceremony Joe Biden becomes the 46th president of the United States. AFP/Rob Carr Vice President Kamala Harris leaves after the 59th Presidential Inaguration ceremony on January 20, 2021, at the US Capitol in Washington, DC. Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the US. AFP/Melina Mara