eNCA's Masego Rahlaga is in Mondeor, South of Johannesburg following the story of this music legend. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Tributes have started pouring in to commemorate world-renowned singer and composer Sibongile Khumalo. Khumalo died of stroke-related complications at the age of 63.
She's been lauded as one of the great singing talents of her time, inspiring composers to create new music. READ: Legendary singer Sibongile Khumalo has died Music producer Sipho Sithole said Khumalo she was an amazing singer and wonderful soul. One of Sibongile Khumalo's childhood friends, Sipho 'Hostix' Mabuse, said it was a privilege working with her in the music industry. They grow up together in Orlando West, Soweto. World-renowned musician Sibongile Khumalo has passed away, at the age of 63. #eNCA speaks to Khumalo's former manager, Lazarus Serobe. #Courtesy #DStv403 This is a moment of great sadness for all of us who were mesmerised and moved by the power, sensuality and improvisation of Sibongile Khumalo’s unique voice.#RIPSibongileKhumalo pic.twitter.com/IlHL0KvwGM With a heavy heart, we bid farewell to celebrated songstress Sibongile Khumalo who transcended South African traditional music to international stages.
Rest in Peace Ma'Mngoma
May your angelic voice take its rightful place in the heavens
Sincerely,
Drs Zweli and May Mkhize pic.twitter.com/E2OX7dgtwI Words simply fail me regarding the passing of music icon Sibongile Khumalo. Heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and fans. May her remarkable soul #RIP #RIPSibongileKhumalo pic.twitter.com/MOddSHR4Mw Sibongile Khumalo was part of the fabric of South African life. She was present at so many important moments in our collective life. Her voice will be missed in so many ways.
She was the very best of us.#RIPSibongileKhumalo https://t.co/rLNx4U19tJ The South African Jazz and Opera have lost an icon.
Listening to Pretty Yende and Mam' Sibongile Khumalo's Delibe's Flower Duet in remembrance. pic.twitter.com/mEFh0ImRBS Jazz singer Sibongile Khumalo has died of stroke-related complications, aged 63. #eNCA speaks to Sipho 'Hotstix' Mabuse. #DStv403