The ANC is celebrating its 109th anniversary differently this year. Their massive annual event has been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. President Cyril Ramaphosa will tonight delivery the January 8 statement virtually. JOHANNESBURG - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the party at the anniversary celebrations on Friday in a statement made against the backdrop of great upheaval in the country. Ramaphosa reminded the party of the original principles underpinning the party's formation -- those of integrity, honesty, tolerance, respect and service to the people. He said the organisation has been weakened by internal conflicts, corruption, resistance to renewal and controversies involving ANC leaders. READ: Jan 8 statement: ANC NEC under pressure "Internal conflicts can consume us and detract the real very need to unite and transform society," he said. Ramaphosa said the goals for the ANC are to act together to defeat COVID-19, put the economy on the path of renewal and recovery, fundamentally renew the party and to work to build a better Africa. He said the ANC must win public confidence by meeting the needs of the people, accounting to communities, deploying the most capable leaders to positions of responsibility, managing public resources ethically and acknowledging weaknesses within the structure. Ramaphosa named the coronavirus pandemic, the contraction of the economy and gender-based violence as key issues to be addressed. Comrades and Friends,
Our foremost immediate priority in 2021 is to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic.
The virus is ever-present and it threatens the health and well-being of everyone in our country.#ANC109 It threatens livelihoods and undermines our efforts to rebuild the economy and create jobs.
South Africa is in the midst of a second wave that could prove deadlier than the first unless we all play our part to curb and defeat this virus.#ANC109 We will continue to strengthen our health system and sustain community health interventions such as mass screening, testing and tracing.#ANC109 Ramaphosa spoke on the COVID-19 vaccine programme, saying it will initially prioritise health workers, police and teachers. "We will progressively reach all South Africans to achieve herd immunity." Ramaphosa said the party needs to unite and tackle rampant corruption within the party. READ: State Capture: Ramaphosa will testify, says Zondo He said every member accused of or reported to be involved in corrupt practices must report to the integrity commission immediately. Ramaphosa said members who fail to give an acceptable explanation or to voluntarily step down while they face disciplinary, investigative or prosecutorial procedures, will be summarily suspended. Ramaphosa: We must be more direct in our efforts to reduce alcohol and substance abuse through legislative measures. #ANC109 The president also outlined specific party-centred tasks, including political education of members, the strengthening of leagues and alliances, and renew unity within the party. READ: Casac: ANC must show commitment to fight against corruption Ramaphosa ended his address with a call for united action in rebuilding the South African economy and a better society. "Let us ensure that, as we rebuild our economy and our society and as we strive to build a South Africa that belongs to all who live in it, we harness that spirit of unity, cohesion and solidarity."