Legal experts and civil society groups are warning government to make sure, the vaccine rollout is not hampered by corruption. #eNCA #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Legal experts and civil society groups are warning government to make sure the vaccine rollout is not hampered by corruption. While many countries have started rolling out a vaccine, South Africa may only begin its campaign in April. Government says it hopes to begin sooner. READ: Experts question COVID-19 vaccine rollout plans During the second wave, anti-corruption organisations such as Corruption Watch have raised some serious concerns about the possibility of more corruption. They've warned government that if stricter measures are not in place, we could see the vaccine rollout compromised. They also say negotiations between government and pharmaceutical companies have to be transparent. READ: COVID-19 vaccine: "Put lives before profit," says SA Council of Churches "We can't be subjected to non-disclosure agreements with pharmaceutical companies that could be then the basis to hide malfeasance, collusion and the type of corruption we saw with PPE," says Corruption Watch's head of legal, Karam Singh. Legal experts say specialised courts should be set up to deal with companies accused of corrupt activities. READ: Government's vaccine rollout plan lacks detail: Nehawu Meanwhile, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says the government is aiming to vaccinate 67 percent of the population to achieve herd immunity. That's about 40 million of the country's population. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.