File: Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu. JOHANNESBURG - Democratic Alliance leader, John Steenhuisen says Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu's work will be remembered in history. Mthembu died from COVID-19 complications on Thursday. Steenhusien applauded the work done by Jackson Mthembu in parliament, even against his own party. "What a great guy to work with and a towering giant in the political landscape and with a devasting sense of humour as well, which he put to good use in jollying parliament along and of bringing people together," he said.  Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu has died - President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement a short while ago. Democratic Alliance leader, John Steenhuisen, reacts. Courtesy #DStv403 One Movement founder, Mmusi Maimane says the nation lost a great servant. "In life, you meet a few quality people, you meet people who I would describe as the salt of the Earth, you meet people who like minister Mthembu and I fought, we laughed but I never doubted his love for our nation," said Maimane. Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu has died - President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement a short while ago. One South Africa Movement leader, Mmusi Maimane, reacts. Courtesy #DStv403 UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa's hailed Mthembu for standing for what he believes in and of course, not forgetting his good sense of humour. "Jackson Mthembu had a backbone, he would stand for what he believed in, he was not a person you could persuade easily. We will miss his good sense of humour as well," he said. Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu has died - President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement a short while ago. United Democratic Movement leader, Bantu Holomisa reacts. Courtesy #DStv403 ACDP leader, Reverend Kenneth Meshoe describes Mthembu as a great leader who respected everyone despite their political party affiliation. Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu has died - President Cyril Ramaphosa made the announcement a short while ago. Courtesy #DStv403