People hold placards and balloons forming the number 2021 during celebrations for the New Year in Amritsar. AFP/Narinder Nanu Icelandic people celebrate New Year's Eve and hope for a brighter 2021 as fireworks light up the sky in Reykjavik, Iceland. AFP/Halldor Kolbeins Fireworks explode over the River Nile in the Egyptian capital Cairo during New Year's Eve celebrations. AFP/Khaled Desouki Berlin's landmark Brandenburg Gate is illuminated during a concert 'Willkommen 2021' (Welcome 2021) on New Year's Eve. AFP/John MacDougall New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Ras al-Khaimah in the United Arab Emirates. AFP/Giuseppe Cacace New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Chao Phraya River during the fireworks show for New Year's Eve in Bangkok. AFP/Mladen Antonov People wearing face masks release balloons during a New Year's countdown in Wuhan in China’s central Hubei province. AFP/Noel Celis Fireworks are launched from the Taipei 101 commercial building to celebrate the New Year in Taipei. AFP/Sam Yeh New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Sydney's iconic Harbour Bridge and Opera House (L) during the fireworks show. AFP/Saeed Khan People hold placards and balloons forming the number 2021 during celebrations for the New Year in Amritsar. AFP/Narinder Nanu Icelandic people celebrate New Year's Eve and hope for a brighter 2021 as fireworks light up the sky in Reykjavik, Iceland. AFP/Halldor Kolbeins Fireworks explode over the River Nile in the Egyptian capital Cairo during New Year's Eve celebrations. AFP/Khaled Desouki Berlin's landmark Brandenburg Gate is illuminated during a concert 'Willkommen 2021' (Welcome 2021) on New Year's Eve. AFP/John MacDougall New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Ras al-Khaimah in the United Arab Emirates. AFP/Giuseppe Cacace New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Chao Phraya River during the fireworks show for New Year's Eve in Bangkok. AFP/Mladen Antonov People wearing face masks release balloons during a New Year's countdown in Wuhan in China’s central Hubei province. AFP/Noel Celis Fireworks are launched from the Taipei 101 commercial building to celebrate the New Year in Taipei. AFP/Sam Yeh New Year's Eve fireworks erupt over Sydney's iconic Harbour Bridge and Opera House (L) during the fireworks show. AFP/Saeed Khan People hold placards and balloons forming the number 2021 during celebrations for the New Year in Amritsar. AFP/Narinder Nanu Icelandic people celebrate New Year's Eve and hope for a brighter 2021 as fireworks light up the sky in Reykjavik, Iceland. AFP/Halldor Kolbeins RIO DE JANEIRO - From Sydney Harbour Bridge to the Acropolis to Copacabana beach, fireworks burst in skies above eerily deserted landmarks as the world ushered in the New Year with muted celebrations and said good riddance to a pandemic-ridden 2020. After a grinding year that has seen at least 1.7 million people die from COVID-19, fresh waves of infection have sparked renewed lockdowns and forced would-be revellers to extend their 2020 tradition of watching events from the sofa. The eagerly awaited first seconds of 2021 fell on the Pacific nations of Kiribati and Samoa. In New Zealand, which has won plaudits for its handling of the coronavirus, large crowds gathered in Auckland for a fireworks display. In Australia's largest city, Sydney, fireworks lit up the glittering harbour with a dazzling display, but few spectators watched in person. Some Hong Kongers, despite restrictions, ventured out to mark the start of the year, gathering on the Victoria Harbour waterfront to take selfies. In Tokyo, where residents face the prospect of a state of emergency after infections touched new highs, people queued in face masks to offer New Year prayers. Wuhan in China, where the virus first appeared late last year, saw thousands gather to celebrate. Elsewhere, the mood was more downbeat. In Russia, President Vladimir Putin acknowledged in a New Year's address that a second wave of COVID-19 was battering the nation. "The fight against it does not stop for a minute," he said. Italy -- where shocking images of makeshift morgues and exhausted medics awoke the world to the severity of the crisis -- is on a nationwide lockdown until January 7 with a 10 pm curfew in place. From France to Latvia and Brazil, police and -- in some cases -- military personnel were deployed to enforce curfews or bans on large gatherings. Paris and Athens both featured socially distanced gatherings, with a virtual concert and light show over Notre Dame in the French capital and fireworks over the Acropolis in Greece. In hard-hit London, 74-year-old American singer-songwriter Patti Smith had been due to ring in the New Year with a tribute to National Health Service workers who have died from COVID-19, projected on the screen at Piccadilly Circus and streamed on YouTube. But due to alarm at rising infections rates, the big-screen projection was cancelled. A fireworks and laser show was held in Dubai at the Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest tower, where there has been a slew of new cases. Those watching were required to wear masks and register with identifying QR codes. On the banks of Lake Baikal in Siberia, where temperatures plummet to as low as -35 degrees Celsius, around a dozen Russians emerged invigorated after a New Year's Eve ice dip. German Chancellor Angela Merkel used her New Year greeting to warn the coronavirus crisis would extend into 2021 even if vaccines bring some hope, as police clashed with revellers near the Brandenburg gate in Berlin. As the final hours of 2020 ticked away in the Americas, authorities in New York City blocked public access to Times Square, where thousands usually gather to watch a crystal ball drop at midnight. The US, the worst-hit country in the world, is nearing 20 million recorded infections and 345,000 deaths. In Brazil -- where 195,000 people have died of COVID-19, the second-highest death toll -- Rio de Janeiro blocked the usual swarms of revellers from gathering on Copacabana beach.