The Meerkat radio telescope in the Karoo has found two new radio galaxies, much bigger than our own Milky Way and, the discovery is putting the country at the forefront of radio astronomy. eNCA's Lindsay Dentlinger reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 KAROO - South African astronomers have made a major discovery that is helping to fill in the blanks. The Meerkat radio telescope in the Karoo has found two new radio galaxies, much bigger than our own Milky Way and, the discovery is putting the country at the forefront of radio astronomy.
62 times larger than the Milky Way. READ: Dwarf planet Ceres is an ocean world: study The discovery of these two radio galaxies the size of 6.5 million light-years, is contributing to the understanding of the evolution of galaxies.
Astronomer Jacinta Delhaize said, "this kind of work has been helping us to understand how galaxies are formed and evolved over the history of the universe and, of course, we live in the galaxy called the milky way, so we want to know what's happening inside galaxies.
The newly-discovered galaxies are bigger than 90percent of other known radio galaxies. Until now, they have been hidden from sight due to the technical limitations of radio telescopes. WATCH: 'Ring of fire' solar eclipse thrills skywatchers Delhaize said, "one of the most exciting things is that we can detect these galaxies. The MeerKAT telescope in SA is the first of its kind that can detect things that are so big, so vastly distributed on the sky and so feint. So just to know that we can detect things like that is exciting so we now expect to find many more.
With the construction of the even more powerful trans-continental Square Kilometre Array set to start this year, the sky really is the limit.
"SA is starting to be one of the superstars of radio astronomy in the world. This is a fantastic time for science and astronomy South Africa and Africa in general and this is only going to get bigger and bigger so we should all be very, very proud," Delhaize said.
Astronomers believe they are now on the cusp of even bigger galactic discoveries.