Nurses attend to a COVID-19 patient in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at a California hospital. AFP/Apu Gomes WASHINGTON - The United States marked the New Year by passing the extraordinary milestone of 20 million COVID-19 cases. The US has floundered in its efforts to quell the virus, which is spreading rapidly across the country and has already caused more than 347,000 deaths -- by far the highest national death toll. Worldwide hopes that COVID-19 vaccines will bring a rapid end to the pandemic in 2021 have been shaken by the slow start to the US vaccination programme, which has been beset by logistical problems and overstretched hospitals. READ: US adds a million COVID-19 cases in less than a week Nearly 2.8 million people in the US have already received their first jabs, but the figure fell well behind the 20 million inoculations that President Donald Trump's administration promised by the end of 2020. The desperate race to vaccinate is set to dominate the coming year, with the coronavirus already having killed at least 1.8 million people since emerging in China in December 2019, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. Experts believe the worst is yet to come globally, predicting a sharp rise in cases and deaths after weeks of holiday gatherings. READ: US detects first case of coronavirus variant in Colorado According to Johns Hopkins University, the US hit a record number of daily deaths on Wednesday when more than 3,900 people died of COVID-19. President-elect Joe Biden, who takes office on January 20, has criticized the troubled vaccine rollout and implored Americans to wear masks. Under Trump, US authorities have given often mixed messages on mask-wearing, social distancing and shutdowns, and the outgoing president has repeatedly downplayed the risks. READ: WHO grants 'emergency validation' to Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine But in his New Year's Eve message, Trump hailed his administration's response, saying, "Our most vulnerable citizens are already receiving the vaccine, and millions of doses are quickly being shipped all across our country." The World Health Organization on Thursday granted emergency validation to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, paving the way for countries worldwide to quickly approve its import and distribution.