Joe Biden won in the all-important Electoral College by a vote of 306 to 232. AFP/Joe Raedle WASHINGTON - A group of Republican senators led by veteran lawmaker Ted Cruz said they will challenge Joe Biden's election win -- the latest last-ditch move to support Donald Trump's efforts to undermine the vote. The initiative, which appears certain to fail, flies in the face of rulings in dozens of courts and the findings by officials in several key states, that there were no widespread voting problems. READ: Trump finally agrees to Biden transition, but still not conceding The Republicans' statement, signed by Cruz and six other current senators along with four senators-elect, asserts that "allegations of fraud and irregularities in the 2020 election exceed any in our lifetimes." The group said that when Congress convenes in a joint session on Wednesday -- for what normally would be a pro-forma certification of Biden's victory -- they will demand the creation of a special commission to conduct an "emergency 10-day audit" of the election results. READ: Trump says he will leave office -- if Biden victory is confirmed The statement says individual states could then convene special legislative sessions and potentially revise their vote totals. "An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can't let it happen!" Trump tweeted Saturday. Posting a list of the 11 senators, Trump added: "And after they see the facts, plenty more to come...Our Country will love them for it!"  An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can’t let it happen! https://t.co/sKn4iTjUy0 The Congress sessions, sure to be contentious, will play out against a backdrop of pro-Trump rallies in Washington next week encouraged by the president himself. As with Trump's other attempts to reverse his election defeat, the latest political manoeuvring appears doomed. Democrats control the House, and many Republicans are expected to vote Wednesday for certification. READ: Biden joins battle for Senate as top Republican accepts win The 11 senators conceded that most Democrats and "more than a few Republicans" would likely oppose their initiative. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell has urged fellow Republicans to vote to certify and avoid a divisive political brawl, saying, "The Electoral College has spoken." Biden won in the all-important Electoral College by a vote of 306 to 232.