Hawker apprentice Lim Wei Keat displaying chickens at a chicken rice stall in Singapore. AFP/Roslan Rahman SINGAPORE - After the pandemic torpedoed his chance to work at a Michelin-starred New York restaurant, Lim Wei Keat returned to his roots by becoming a Singapore street-food chef cooking local fare. The 25-year-old is among a growing number of young street-food vendors -- known as "hawkers" locally -- fuelling hopes that a new generation will preserve the city-state's culinary traditions. Singapore is full of open-air food courts offering a wide variety of cuisines influenced by the Southeast Asian nation's ethnic Chinese, Indian and Muslim populations. Even after the city-state ballooned into an affluent financial hub, the hawker tradition lived on and remains a central part of everyday life for many. READ: Taste of success for Taiwan's street vendors with Michelin award But many chefs are heading toward retirement -- their median age is 59 -- and young Singaporeans often shun the trade, stoking fears that hawker traditions and their delicious dishes could be lost. Hawkers usually focus on just one or two dishes, from fried rice noodles and turnip cake to curry puffs. Lim chose an ever-popular traditional favourite -- Hainanese chicken rice -- and likes to cook it the old-fashioned way. "I love chicken rice, so why not start with something that I love and I'm passionate about?" His mentor, 61-year-old Neo Cheng Leong, has been selling the dish for 30 years. He makes it from scratch every morning at his stall, cleaning the chicken, poaching it at just the right temperature, then cooking the rice in chicken broth, with ginger and scallion-infused oil. READ: Small wonders: the Vietnamese artist making tiny food Cuts of the tender meat are served with a plate of the resultant fragrant rice with garlic chilli sauce and sweetened soy sauce. Once Lim has completed his government training programme  -- which includes two months of training under Neo, and cooking for a panel of judges -- he can rent a stall at a heavily subsidised rate for 15 months. Still, there are many challenges that make it hard to lure young Singaporeans from better-paid office jobs, such as rising costs and long hours. Hawkers are also forced to keep prices low to compete with rivals, meaning that making ends meet in one of the world's most expensive cities can be tough.