Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are expecting their second child. AFP/Saeed Khan LONDON - Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle are expecting their second child, a spokesman said in a Valentine's Day announcement. The couple released a black-and-white image of them under a tree, all smiles, with Markle showing signs of pregnancy. "We can confirm that Archie is going to be a big brother," the spokesman said, referring to the couple's son. "The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are overjoyed to be expecting their second child." READ: Meghan and Harry share Archie's christening photos The announcement came 37 years to the day newspapers in Britain carried the news Prince Charles and Princess Diana were expecting Harry, their second child. Meghan and Harry, who is Queen Elizabeth II's grandson, quit frontline royal duties in March last year and now live in California. The news follows Markle's disclosure in The New York Times in November that she had suffered a miscarriage in July. READ: Royal baby Archie awaited in SA for first official trip A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "Her Majesty, Duke of Edinburgh, Prince of Wales and the entire family are delighted and wish them well." Misan Harriman, a friend of the couple who took the photograph they released, wrote on Twitter: "Meg, I was there at your wedding to witness this love story begin, and my friend, I am honoured to capture it grow." The couple's departure last year -- dubbed "Megxit" by the British press -- was a far cry from 2018, when they married in a ceremony at Windsor Castle watched around the world. Since leaving, they have launched several legal cases against news outlets alleging invasion of privacy -- including one that ended on Thursday with a victory against Associated Newspapers in Britain. Meg, I was there at your wedding to witness this love story begin, and my friend, I am honoured to capture it grow. Congratulations to The Duke and Duchess of Sussex on this joyous news!#remoteshoot #shotonipad #shotbymisan pic.twitter.com/3iSYjydVj9