File: People visit the Sistine Chapel on the reopening day of the Vatican museum. AFP/Andreas Solaro VATICAN CITY - Gone were the crowds -- but the lucky few who ventured to the reopened Vatican Museums on Monday were treated to centuries' worth of sumptuous artworks, including inside the Sistine Chapel. After closing for 88 days since November due to coronavirus restrictions, the collection of museums -- spread over seven kilometres within the Vatican -- opened its doors to a mostly local public, capitalising on the empty galleries and a dearth of tourists. "Today is a celebration," said Director Barbara Jatta, who welcomed photographers and television crews inside. READ: Dubai shuts bars after coronavirus surge Jatta had expressed much the same sentiment in June, however, when the museums reopened after being shuttered in March as the pandemic struck Italy before engulfing the rest of Europe. As the heavy museum doors swung open on Monday, first in line were tour guides Martina Sorrenti and Vincenzo Spina, who, in normal times, spend five days a week inside guiding visitors. Art-deprived, they were headed first to the Laocoon, the ancient marble masterpiece discovered on Rome's Esquiline Hill in the 16th century, depicting two serpents coiled around the muscular body of Laocoon and his two sons. "In past years, the museum was our second home. Today, we're going to rediscover a place we haven't forgotten but has become a little dimmed in our memories," said Spina. READ: Pope dedicates world day to 'forgotten' grandparents The vast chapel is also looking fresher than it might usually at this time of year, since the shutdown allowed staff to carry out its annual deep-clean a month early. Revenue from the museums, which employ 700 people, is crucial for filling the coffers of the Vatican State. The museums averaged about 23,000 visitors per day in 2019, said Jatta, who said she hoped to have "a few thousand" daily in weeks ahead. "Right now is the moment to come and see the museum of the Pope," she said.