This classroom in Kagara, northwestern Nigeria, is also deserted. AFP/Kola Sulaimon JANGEBE - Parents of more than 300 kidnapped Nigerian schoolchildren could only wait for news as more than 40 others seized elsewhere 10 days ago were freed. The Government Girls Science Secondary School in Jangebe, northwestern Nigeria was completely deserted following the mass abduction. READ: Nigeria gunmen kidnap more than 300 schoolgirls, say police Just a few goats broke the silence more than a day after 317 students were kidnapped by gunmen. It was the country's third school attack in less than three months -- events that have revived traumatic memories of the "Chibok girls" kidnapped by jihadists nearly seven years ago. After stoning an official convoy that tried to reach the school on Friday, resigned parents waited for news from a rescue mission that was trying to locate the girls. "It would have been better if my two daughters had died and I buried them, knowing that Allah who gave them to me took them, than having them taken away by bandits," Abubakar Zaki said. READ: Victims of mid-February Nigeria school abduction freed Several hundred kilometres to the south meanwhile, students and teachers from the Kagara school who had been kidnapped in mid-February were freed and welcomed by regional governor Abubakar Sani Bello. "We thought they were 42 but actually they were 38," local government spokesman Sani Idris said. "They are all safe and sound but one of them is hospitalised due to extreme exhaustion, some have mild injuries or are still traumatised," he added. Northwest and central Nigeria have seen a surge in attacks by heavily armed criminal gangs that raid villages, steal livestock and kill and abduct residents after looting and torching homes. The attackers have increasingly begun abducting young students from boarding schools. In early December, 344 young boys were seized from a school in Kankara, in the northern state of Katsina, but were released a week later. READ: Nigeria gangster who abducted school children surrenders Official deny paying a ransom for their release but people who track the situation believe that was the case and warn it would increase attacks in poor regions where security forces are scarce. Nigerian President Muhamadu Buhari, who has been criticised for failing to deal with the unrest, insisted Friday that he "will not succumb to blackmail by bandits".