eNCA's Hloni Mtimkulu reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa plans to hold its postponed Annual General Meeting in April. A new board will be elected during that AGM, in what should be the start of the road to recovery but all that hinges on what the new board will look like, and how the overall governance structure will operate. The process to amend Cricket South Africa's governing document, its memorandum of incorporation, is underway. READ: CSA shelves social justice initiative The sticking point continues to be the relationship between the Members' Council and the Board and where the power will lie between the two bodies.
Interim Board Chair Stavros Nicolaou said: "What we need to do is have appropriate governance between the two structures, so that you don't get any attendant conflict of interest, and/or, I think some people call it governance drifting so certainly the area that you're addressing is one of the important amendments that we're addressing currently with the Members' Council."
Consensus on the composition of the new board has not been reached, but discussions between the members' council and the interim board are underway. READ: Mthethwa files notice with ICC to intervene in CSA In 2012, the Nicholson Report questioned the need for a two-tier structure and recommended a majority-independents split on the board. The interim board supports a structure where the incoming board is the centre of power, and it is unclear where all this will leave the members' council.
Members' Council acting-president Rihan Richards said: "As we revisit this, we will be revisiting this with an open mind and trying to see what is the best for cricket, and how best it will be best served, so I just want to make that clear when we've worked through this, we will be engaging on a very constructive manner in trying to achieve what is the best governance structure for Cricket South Africa."
The interim board has not been spared the poor form that has hit CSA's innings over some time now but Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa says he is confident they're still on track.