File: The Diamond Princess cruise ship. AFP/Behrouz Mehri TOKYO - A year after the coronavirus-hit Diamond Princess went into quarantine off Japan, the cruise industry is hoping passengers will help steer them to calmer waters. Analysts say smooth sailing isn't likely before the second half of 2021 at the earliest, but bookings are already picking up. David Abel and his wife Sally both caught coronavirus on the Diamond Princess, but they've booked five cruises for late 2021 and early 2022, and are eyeing a sixth. READ: Canada extends cruise ship ban to early 2022 "We can't wait to get back to sea," David Abel told subscribers to his YouTube page in an early February video. "There's nothing better than waking up in the morning in the world's most exciting and interesting cities. We love the sound of the ocean." He acknowledged some people "have concerns" but insisted he believes "cruises will be one of the safest types of vacations human beings could ever take". READ: Carnival Cruises announces November cruise cancellation Carrying 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew, the Diamond Princess was supposed to be meandering around Asia, but things quickly changed when a passenger tested positive after leaving the boat. Over 700 people on board would eventually test positive for the virus and 13 people died. A year on, the lessons learned from the pandemic mean tough restrictions for the cruise industry. READ: Singapore 'cruises to nowhere' plan sparks virus fears Canada has barred cruise vessels from its waters until February 2022. And the US Centers for Disease Control advises against cruises, though authorities released rules last year for a phased resumption. Operators will be required to have a lab on board for virus testing, and trips must last no more than seven days, with masks mandatory on board. No surprise then that most cruises in the area have not resumed. Carnival Cruises now hopes to restart US operations in late April, as does Royal Caribbean. Norwegian Cruise Line is targeting early May.