#DStv403 #eNCA JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday announced a number of restrictions that are being eased under adjusted Level 3 of the lockdown. It remains compulsory for every person to wear a mask in a public space and the new curfew hours are from 11pm to 4am. READ: SA Lockdown: Some restrictions eased South Africans started flocking to beaches on Tuesday morning after Ramaphosa's announcement that beaches will be reopened subject to social distancing and health protocols. eNCA's Monique Mortlock reported from Muizenberg. Courtesy of #DStv403 Restrictions on the sale of alcohol have also been eased. The sale of alcohol by licensed premises for off-site consumption will be permitted from Mondays to Thursdays from 10am to 6pm. The Beer Association of South Africa says the lifting of the alcohol ban is too little, too late for small businesses. READ: Alcohol ban cost fiscus R4,5bn: SAB It says many have had to shut down due to the restrictions. The association says it will, however, look at ways to salvage businesses. "We need to relook how we can actually try and salvage these businesses and try and see what short-term relief we can offer them," Patricia Pillay said. eNCA reporter Nqobile Madlala spoke to the Beer Association. Courtesy of #DStv403 Faith-based gatherings will be permitted, subject to health protocols. Such gatherings may not exceed 50 people for indoor venues and 100 persons for outdoor venues. Where the venue is too small to accommodate these numbers with appropriate social distancing, then no more than 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue may be used. READ: R1.2bn funding for tourism sector Gillian Saunders from the Tourism Business Council said the restrictions had an impact on the tourism season. "Businesses have been struggling and this was sort of the final nail in the coffin for those businesses," she said. eNCA reporter, Lindokuhle Xulu, was in Johannesburg getting reaction to the President's announcements. Courtesy of #DStv403