A beekeeper inspects a beehive board. AFP/Jalaa Marey ASSOUNVOUE - The art of beekeeping has spread swiftly in Assounvoue, in the heart of the world's top cocoa producer. Farmers started taking up honey-making to supplement their income -- and then also realised their primary crops did better when pollinated by the bees. Word of the twin benefits spread fast. "In West Africa, you have to harvest the honey at night," says French beekeeper Sebastien Gavini, co-director of a firm called Le Bon Miel de Cote d'Ivoire (The fine honey of Ivory Coast). West African bees are "wilder and barely used to contact with human beings," Gavini explains. READ: Bad year for European beekeepers Modern beekeeping is only getting started in Africa, says Francois Silue, a member of the Ivorian Cooperative Company (SCI) at Katiola in the north, the source of the country's most highly-regarded honey. "Our duty is to stop farmers from killing the bees, to change their culture," explains Silue, who was trained by Japanese and German specialist aid workers. The SCI brings together about 50 beekeeping farmers. Obtaining statistics on the beekeeping business is complicated at national level. READ: SA's honey bees under threat "There are only partial figures," says Marcel Iritie, president of the Agricultural Platform of Ivory Coast. The platform estimates that 30 tonnes of honey are produced each year by about 100 members and several cooperatives. "But that doesn't take into account hundreds of small producers," Iritie notes. All or nearly all these people have kept their traditional roles as farmers, treating the production of honey as a secondary activity. READ: We taught bees a simple number language, and they got it "The farmer who goes into beekeeping wins twice over," argues Mathieu Offi, who works alongside Gavini. "Money is earned from the honey and harvests are better because of better pollination." The price of a kilogramme of honey ranges from 3,000 to 10,000 francs (15 euros), while spinoff products (bees' wax, propolis varnish, essential oils and even bee venom) also sell well.