Norway moves mountains to bring skiing to the people. AFP/Petter Berntsen OSLO - Norwegians, the saying goes, are born with skis on their feet. But with a lack of snow and the pandemic this year leaving many in despair, authorities are bringing snow and ski trails to downtown Oslo. For the past few weeks, big trucks have been dumping hundreds of cubic metres of fluffy white stuff, made by snow cannons perched on the hills outside the capital, in the city's still-green parks. Packed down or groomed with cross-country trails, the parks have transformed into winter wonderlands for skiing enthusiasts of all ages: little children on excursions with their daycare groups, active seniors, and office workers taking a break from their work-from-home schedule. "For three months, we've had very strict corona restrictions in Oslo, but we can still go outside," city councillor Omar Samy Gamal says, as a grooming machine behind him prepares a snowboarding hill in the Torshovdalen park. "Since we haven't had a lot of snow this winter, we're doing what we can to bring it to the people. We're bringing them a little bit of 'marka'," he says. Four Oslo parks -- including that belonging to the royal palace -- have already been or will be partially covered in artificial snow to quench locals' thirst for sledding and skiing. "It's extremely important to keep people active without everyone having to take the same train to leave town," says Miriam Heen Skotland, a psychologist out cross-country skiing in the Voldslokka park on her lunch break. Climate change has made winters in Norway shorter. According to the Norwegian Meteorological Institute, Oslo has over the past 30 years lost 21 winter days, defined as days where the temperature dips below 0 degrees Celsius. The city could lose another 26 winter days by 2050, the Institute has warned. "When I was young, it wasn't hard to predict the weather in winter: it was often cold and there was usually a lot of snow," Norway's Education Minister Guri Melby said in January when new climate measures were presented.