File: The influential Globes are often a bellwether for any given film's success at the Oscars. AFP/Robyn Beck LOS ANGELES - The unveiling of the Golden Globes nominations on Wednesday will jumpstart a Hollywood awards season like no other, with pandemic-related theatre closures and blockbuster delays expected to boost smaller, stay-at-home movies like Netflix's "The Trial of the Chicago 7" and "Mank." READ: Theatre, cinema, concerts thrive in Madrid despite virus The influential Globes are often a bellwether for any given film's success at the Oscars, but all bets are off in a year that has seen glitzy award campaign events scrapped and ceremonies postponed by Covid-19 restrictions. Tinseltown's traditional studios held back the release of several big hitters last year in the hope of theatres reopening, so streamers including Netflix, Amazon Prime and Apple should fare better than ever at upcoming prize ceremonies. Among the lead contenders are Aaron Sorkin's "Chicago 7" -- a timely look at the protests, police violence and madcap trial surrounding the 1968 Chicago anti-war riots -- and David Fincher's "Mank," which dives into Golden Age Hollywood with the making of "Citizen Kane." Amazon Prime has "One Night in Miami," a play adaptation about Muhammad Ali, Malcolm X, Sam Cooke and Jim Brown's friendship at the height of the US civil rights movement, and sleeper hit "Sound of Metal" about a rock drummer who loses his hearing. Holding the line for Hollywood's old-school studios almost singlehandedly is "Nomadland," which swept the prizes at the Venice and Toronto festivals and is the pick of many experts for overall best picture. READ: Bond movie 'No Time To Die' delayed again by pandemic The movie from Disney-owned Searchlight stars Frances McDormand adrift among a community of elderly, nomadic idealists who roam across America in worn-out vans. Voted on by the 90-odd members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, the Globes split movies into "drama" and "comedy or musical" categories. In the latter, Amazon sequel "Borat Subsequent Moviefilm" looks set to contend with Meryl Streep's Netflix musical "The Prom" and the Disney+ filmed version of Broadway hit "Hamilton." Foreign-language films are likewise separated out into their own Globes pool, where Korean-American family drama "Minari" is tipped to emulate last year's all-conquering "Parasite." In the acting categories, late "Black Panther" star Chadwick Boseman could receive dual nominations for his work in 1920s blues drama "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom" and Spike Lee's "Da 5 Bloods," both on Netflix. Other heavyweight lead actor favourites include Anthony Hopkins for "The Father," adapted from a French play about dementia, and Gary Oldman for "Mank." Boseman's "Ma Rainey" co-star Viola Davis is expected to feature on the best actress side, along with Carey Mulligan for #MeToo revenge thriller "Promising Young Woman," and McDormand. Sacha Baron Cohen ("Borat" and "Chicago 7") and Leslie Odom Jr ("One Night in Miami" and "Hamilton") are also eyeing multiple nods.