It remains a struggle for women’s football to attract commercial backing. This has made it hard to turn the women’s game professional. One local club seems to be bucking the trend where that’s concerned. #eNCA​ Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - It remains a struggle for women’s football to attract commercial backing. This has made it hard to turn the women’s game professional. One local club seems to be bucking the trend where that’s concerned. Janine van Wyk Football Club have wasted no time getting back to the field after amateur football was given the green light to resume training. With their last taste of competitive action coming in December 2019, it has been a time of adjustment. “It’s something that was happening all over the world, so we were no exception," says defender, Noma Ntsibande. "We obviously had to be disciplined, try to keep fit from home, even though it’s always difficult, because you have to train alone, and you’re not even sure," she says. “We’re quite excited, we’re raring to go, and we’re a completely competitive team – we want to compete with the best, and that’s where we’re gonna be,” says defender, Nicole Irwin. Ciara Picco is the coach rallying her charges towards their maiden Safa National Women’s League appearance. Behind the firm marshalling are lessons on navigating the months of uncertainty that have characterised recent times. READ: WATCH: Women's football on hold again “I think if we approach every situation as really considering the human behind the other side of the interaction, you get to a point where you know how you would like to be treated as a person, and taking that forward as a team – that’s the best way, really to deal with things like that – to delay with the delays, with the unsure economic times,” says Picco The administration has used the last 14 months on the sidelines to strengthen relationships off the field of play. Backed by star power in Banyana Banyana captain, Janine van Wyk, the club has managed to secure useful sponsorships and partnerships. “Our main aim is to make sure our players get the best that they can. They all work, some of them still go to school, so you know we need sponsors to come on board to help us live a professional kind of lifestyle in football,” says project manager, Lauren Duncan. The club has had to be intentional in how it markets itself. “I think we’ve kind of gone with a different approach. We wanna show people that women’s football is, or does need to be invested in. We’ve kind of packaged the club in a way that sponsors can kind of come in, in different options and opportunities and back the club," says Duncan. With a season in the premier division of local women’s football hopefully just weeks away, Duncan says they want to add even more partners to the list