The chameleon "Brookesia nana", identified as Earth's smallest known reptile, in Madagascar. AFP/Frank Glaw/Zoologische Staatssammlung Munchen PARIS - Scientists have identified Earth's smallest known reptile, warning at the same time that sustained destruction of forests in northern Madagascar threatens its survival. Tiny enough to perch comfortably on a fingertip, the ultra-compact chameleon -- dubbed Brookesia nana -- has the same proportions and world-weary expression as its larger cousins around the world. "We discovered it in the mountains of northern of Madagascar," Frank Glaw, curator of herpetology at the Bavarian State Collection of Zoology, told AFP in an interview. The male's body -- about the size of a peanut -- was 13.5 millimetres long, with the tail adding another nine millimetres. By contrast, the female measured 29 mm from its nose to the tip of its tail. READ: Seven percent of Australia's reptiles 'risk extinction' The pair remain the only specimens of the species ever found. Islands connected long ago to neighbouring continents are known for miniaturised versions of animals that crossed ephemeral land bridges, a phenomenon known as "island dwarfism". "There are numerous extremely miniaturised vertebrates in Madagascar, including the smallest primates and some of the smallest frogs in the world," said co-author Andolalao Rakotoarison of the University of Antananarivo in Madagascar. But the "island effect" does not apply to B. nana, which lives exclusively in mountainous regions some 1,300 metres above sea level, the researchers concluded. B. nana and another mini-chameleon discovered by Glaw and his colleagues on a small island off the coast of Madagascar are especially vulnerable because their range is so small. READ: Tiniest chameleons have fastest tongues Brookesia micra lives on less than two square kilometres, Glaw explained. "One big catastrophic event -- a forest fire -- and the population might be lost very quickly." Madagascar in a global "biodiversity hotspot", accounting for five percent of the world's unique plant and animal species. The island nation has one of the highest rates of poverty in the world and lacks resources for conservation and natural resource management.