It's been 4 months since the matter was enrolled and there's still very little movement on the fraud and corruption matter related to Eskom’s Kusile power station. Former Eskom Chief Executive Officer Abram Masango, Contracts Manager France Hlakudi, businessman Maphoko Kgoemoeswana and Tubular Construction CEO Antonio Trindade appeared briefly in the specialised commercial crimes court. Slindelo Masikane reports. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The R745-million Kusile fraud and corruption case has been postponed to June. Two former Eskom executives are among those charged along with several companies who unduly benefited from various contracts. Investigations began when suspicions were raised about the construction of two large projects at the Medupi and Kusile power stations. READ: Eskom corruption: Prosecutions going slowly Former Eskom Chief Executive Officer Abram Masango, Contracts Manager France Hlakudi, businessman Maphoko Kgoemoeswana and Tubular Construction CEO Antonio Trindade appeared briefly in the specialised commercial crimes court.
They have been charged with fraud, corruption, money laundering, offering and receiving unauthorised gratification between 2014 and 2017.  
The Hawks arrested the men in Gauteng, Limpopo and Mpumalanga back in December 2019. READ: SIU refers over 5,000 Eskom officials for disciplinary proceedings An extradition request is underway for Michael Lomas, the former board chairperson of Tubular Construction, who's currently living in the United Kingdom.
The investigations revealed gross manipulation of contractual agreements between contractors, Eskom employees and third parties at the Kusile power station.
"The postponement was a request by the defence who sent a request for further particulars to be given," said Sindisiwe Twala, investigating directorate spokesperson. "The docket has been disclosed and many of the documents have been furnished. We want to make sure this case is heard timeously but it's in the court's hands to decide at the end of the day."* eNCA's Slindelo Masikane reports.