Disaster management teams are on high alert in KwaZulu-Natal as northern parts of the province are experiencing heavy rainfall. Areas such as Ladysmith and Winterton have been experiencing flooding since last week. #eNCA​ Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Disaster management teams are on high alert in KwaZulu-Natal as northern parts of the province are experiencing heavy rainfall. Areas such as Ladysmith and Winterton have been experiencing flooding since last week. The South African Weather Service says the disruptive rainfall is only expected to clear by Tuesday. KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo and Mpumalanga are on high alert. This as heavy rainfall persists in some areas. The South African Weather Service says the rains are being brought on by a weak low pressure cyclone from Mozambique. “This is nothing to be compared with the tropical cyclone Eloise that we experienced previously however because it has already rained quite a lot over these areas, they remain vulnerable especially when it comes to persistent rainfall," says Jackie Modika from the South African Weather Service. "As of yesterday, up until today places in the northern parts of KZN already recorded in excess of 80 millimeters of rain until this morning. So, they will always be under the alert for disruptive rainfall,” says Modika. The weather service is predicting strong winds which could cause damage to houses and other structures. “We’ve got a warning out for strong winds as well as the disruptive rainfall and what is expected now is that this wind can cause quite a bit of damage to especially informal settlements that is not well structured they will suffer quite a lot of damage because of this and that combined with the excess of rainfall we are also expecting that there will be a disruption in service delivery in certain areas," says Modika. "They might be cut of as far as water and electricity supply will go. The roads have become increasingly dangerous because of flooding and I think we have received flooding reports on the N2 that has been flooded in certain places, so this makes driving conditions very dangerous,” she adds. Meanwhile KZN’s MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs has urged communities to be vigilant. “We want to appeal to our people across the province not only the northern parts of KZN. The residents should try by all means to be in the safer zones and ensure that they comply with the ward government, community leadership tells them because we are working together," says KZN Cogta MEC, Sipho Hlomuka. So far no damages have been reported in the province.