Tokyo governor Yuriko Koike described the decision to ban fans as "heartbreaking". AFP/Charly Triballeau TOKYO - The Olympic flame arrived in Tokyo on Friday but the public was kept away from a low-key welcoming ceremony over coronavirus fears, after a "heartbreaking" announcement that spectators would be banned from most Games events. On a rainy morning two weeks before the opening of the biggest sports tournament since the pandemic began, the flame was brought on stage in a lantern and handed to Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike. Despite disruption to the nationwide torch relay, "it has been transmitted as a way of hope," Koike said. READ: Tokyo scraps Olympic torch relay legs in capital Tokyo 2020 organisers and government officials on Thursday night announced their decision to bar fans from Olympic events in the capital, which will be under a virus emergency throughout the Games. It means the pandemic-postponed Games will be the first to take place largely behind closed doors, with a handful of competitions taking place outside the capital. The torch relay began in March and was meant to build excitement for the Olympics, but it has been pulled from public roads in many places, including Tokyo, to prevent crowds spreading the virus. The nationwide torch relay has been fraught with problems since it began in March On Thursday night, Koike said she felt "heartbreaking grief about this decision," but organisers said they were left no choice as infections rise and the Delta variant causes growing concern. Tokyo 2020 had hoped to have up to 10,000 fans in venues throughout the Games, but now most events will be watched only by officials and Olympic representatives. Japan has so far recorded around 14,900 virus deaths, despite avoiding harsh lockdowns. The new virus emergency largely limits alcohol sales and shortens opening hours for restaurants. READ: Fans urged to stay away from Olympic marathon over virus fears The government has been criticised over the slow start to its vaccination programme, with around 16 percent of the population fully inoculated. The nationwide torch relay has been fraught with problems since it began in March, with almost half the legs disrupted in some way. The relay was forced off public roads in famous tourist cities such as Kyoto and Hiroshima over fears that crowds of fans could spread the virus.