The Wallabies are set to bring in fresh faces for the third Test against France. AFP/William West MELBOURNE - Wallabies coach Dave Rennie is set to bring in fresh faces for the deciding Test against France to inject "some key energy" with skipper Michael Hooper admitting "it sucks" losing to Les Bleus. The three-Test series is finely poised after two close games that went to the wire, with Australia edging the first in Brisbane 23-21 before France bounced back at Melbourne on Tuesday to clinch a hard-fought 28-26 win. It was the visitors' first victory against the Wallabies on Australian soil since 1990 in Sydney, with fullback Melvyn Jaminet the hero, drilling seven penalties, including the winner three minutes from time. The Wallabies were again poor at the breakdown with ill-discipline once more costing them points. "I thought we a lot better in a lot of areas. But you've got to be disciplined, and we made some key errors," admitted New Zealander Rennie, who has won just two from eight since taking over last season. "There was probably two sets we lost -- breakdown penalties and the kicking battle. And we put ourselves under pressure at times and maybe overplayed at our end." Rennie stuck with the same 23 for the opening two Tests but is expected to shuffle the deck with just a four-day turnaround before the decider back in Brisbane on Saturday. Winger Tom Wright could be among those under threat, along with flanker Rob Valetini who has not been as imposing as expected. "There's massive competition for places -- there's a number of guys who played in these first two games and there's not a hell of a lot between them and someone who is outside that 23," said Rennie. "We've got guys who have been really scrapping for an opportunity and deserve a crack and we want to see a response from those new guys coming in -- they will be fresh and full of beans and give us some key energy." Workhorse Hooper, who scored one of Australia's two tries, also pointed to the French being better over the ball, but he has high hopes of winning on Saturday.