South African batsman Quinton de Kock celebrates his half-century during the final T20 international against the West Indies on Saturday. AFP/Randy Brooks ST GEORGE's, Grenada - South Africa capitalised on the misfiring power-hitters of the West Indies to claim a series-clinching 25-run victory in the final T20 International of their five-match contest at the National Cricket Stadium in Grenada on Saturday. Defending a total of 168 for four, thanks to half-centuries from Aiden Markram and Quinton de Kock, all the Proteas' main bowlers made significant strikes to limit the defending World T20 champions to 143 for nine despite a typically flamboyant 52 from opening batsman Evin Lewis. Fast bowler Lungi Ngidi, who endured a hammering through the first four matches, bounced back with three wickets. Fellow pacer Kagiso Rabada, and seam bowling all-rounder Wiaan Mulder, playing in place of injured speedster Anrich Nortje, took two wickets each. However, the outstanding bowling effort was again produced by Tabraiz Shamsi, the left-arm wrist-spinner improving on his previous record economical figures in the last two matches by conceding just 11 runs through his four overs in claiming the wicket of Chris Gayle. He was the inevitable choice as 'Man of the Series' taking seven wickets across the five matches at the outstanding economy rate of four runs per over. West Indian hopes of coping with an increasingly challenging run-rate eventually rested on the shoulders of their captain Kieron Pollard. He was hampered by a leg injury sustained when scampering a quick single and when Mulder removed Pollard and Andre Russell off successive deliveries in the 15th over, the match tilted heavily in favour of the visitors. For South Africa, it was a first T20 International series triumph for almost two years. It was also the first under the captaincy of Temba Bavuma and coaching stewardship of Mark Boucher. "This is really a tremendous effort for our side, and especially for me in just my first T20 International, it is something to build on going forward," said Mulder.