Usually made from crushed cashew apples or coconut palm sap, feni has in recent decades fallen out of favour in Goa. AFP/Indranil Mukherjee CANSAULIM - Five centuries after Goans began making feni -- a pungent, fermented liquor not for the faint-hearted -- a new crop of distillers is hoping to take the spirit global. But first, they have to convince other Indians to drink it. Usually made from crushed cashew apples or coconut palm sap, the potent beverage has in recent decades fallen out of favour in Goa -- a former Portuguese colony south of Mumbai -- with the arrival of foreign liquor brands. "I wanted to translate traditional knowledge for a modern audience," said Hansel Vaz, whose Cazulo distillery uses centuries-old techniques to make feni while inventing cocktails that are easy on the nose and smooth on the palate. Production is limited to the cashew apple harvesting season from February to May, with custom dictating that only the fruit that falls to the ground is ripe enough to be used for feni. Production is limited to the cashew apple harvesting season from February to May While more modern distilleries use metal crushers to extract the juice for fermentation, at Cazulo the cashew apple -- its nut removed -- is dumped into a stone basin carved into the ground. A barefoot farm worker holds on to ropes and stomps the fruit until the juice is extracted and transferred into underground clay pots. After three days, the fermented liquid is boiled and distilled. Fresh juice is then added to it for a second round of distillation. Feni's strength was traditionally measured by looking at the size of the bubbles formed when it's poured into a glass. Today, distillers use alcohol meters or take a sip to infer the quality of the tipple. At Cazulo the cashew apple -- its nut removed -- is dumped into a stone basin carved into the ground - 'Country liquor' - Goan brands are looking to tap a growing market of cosmopolitan and adventurous Indians. Madame Rosa already exports to eight countries, including the United States, Australia and the United Arab Emirates. They produce up to 5,000 cases of feni a year under multiple brand names, with each bottle costing up to 1,500 rupees ($20). But national regulations make it difficult for feni to be sold outside the state because the spirit is officially classified as "country liquor". Many Indians also associate that designation with illegally-brewed alcohol that lands people in hospital -- a marketing nightmare for feni producers. Others warn that rapid expansion could dilute the very essence of feni they are trying to preserve. "It's not about slapping on a fancy label and making a quick buck," said Hansel Vaz of Cazulo, which has exported to North America, Southeast Asia and Europe. "It is a traditional craft. You can't mass-produce it." - By Ammu Kannampilly After three days, the fermented liquid is boiled and distilled. Fresh juice is then added to it for a second round of distillation