British and Irish Lions scrum-half Gareth Davies (L) on his way to scoring a try in their opening tour match at Ellis Park in Johannesburg. AFP/Christiaan Kotze JOHANNESBURG - British and Irish Lions coach Warren Gatland said on Saturday he hoped his team would face tougher opposition as they build towards a three-Test series against the world champion Springboks. The Lions swept aside their namesakes, the Johannesburg-based Lions, scoring eight tries in an easy 56-14 win in the first match of their South African tour at Ellis Park. Gatland said the tourists had to adjust their tactics because their opponents were not as robust as they had expected. "We went in with a bit of a game plan," said Gatland. "They probably did not pressure us as much on defence as we had expected. "We were able to change the way we played so that was a pretty good reaction. I was just really pleased with the energy out there and the enthusiasm of the guys. It was a really positive start." But Gatland admitted in the virtual post-match press conference that he hoped they would be pushed harder in the four remaining games before the first Test in Cape Town on July 24. The tourists will face the Sharks and Bulls -- the strongest two South African franchises -- next week, then South Africa A and another franchise side, the Stormers, before tackling the Springboks. Gatland was assistant coach on the Lions' tour of South Africa in 2009 when the Springboks won the Test series 2-1. "In 2009 we did not come up against any of the Test players in the warm-up games and we were probably a little bit underdone," he said. "So we are going to have to work really hard in training to get the sort of physicality that is required. "Some of the games are going to be a little harder, hopefully, but we understand that there are players out of the (franchise) sides because they are in the Springbok camp." Gatland said the players who had not started against the Johannesburg-based Lions or Japan last weekend would run on in the next tour match against the Sharks at Ellis Park on Wednesday. He said he had not made any decisions about the likely composition of the Test team.