Japan's badminton world number one Kento Momota will make his Olympic debut on home soil at the Tokyo Games later this month. AFP/Adrian Dennis TOKYO - Japanese badminton star Kento Momota said Thursday he feared he might never play at an Olympics after a catalogue of career mishaps, but is feeling "positive" about the Tokyo Games. World number one Momota was banned from Japan's Rio Games team in 2016 for illegal gambling, and was almost forced to retire last year after a serious car crash. But the unprecedented postponement of the Tokyo Games because of the coronavirus pandemic gave him time to recover, and he is aiming for gold when he finally makes his Olympic debut later this month. "When the Games were postponed by a year and then it was on the news that they might be cancelled, I thought a lot about how I might not be able to play at the Olympics," Momota told reporters Thursday. READ: Badminton boss vows 'highest level' competition at Tokyo Games "But a lot of people have worked hard to put the competition on, and I've just tried to block out the noise and put everything into the things I can control." Momota added that his physical fitness has improved "little by little", and that he "feels really good" going into the tournament. "I'm not thinking negative thoughts -- I'm only thinking positive thoughts," he said. Momota was unstoppable in 2019, winning a record-breaking 11 titles including the World Championships, Asia Championships and All England Open. READ: Tokyo scraps Olympic torch relay legs in capital But he said his "spirit was almost broken" after a January 2020 car crash -- hours after he won the Malaysia Masters -- which killed the driver of the vehicle taking him to the airport. Momota underwent surgery on a fractured eye socket after suffering double vision in training, and admitted he feared his career was over. "I think the area where I've really grown is mentally," he said. "I've had to deal with a lot of difficulties, and the fact that I've worked hard to get here gives me confidence going into the competition." READ: Tokyo organisers warn of no-fan Olympics as virus cases rise Momota will be looking to hold off the challenge of Denmark's Viktor Axelsen and Anders Antonsen in Tokyo, with China's defending champion Chen Long also in contention. The pandemic has forced the cancellation of tournaments around the world, but Momota is not worried about scouting his opponents. "I haven't been able to fully grasp their characteristics and play styles, but it's the same for them too," he said. "Everyone is in the same boat, so you really need to focus on playing your own game as best you can."