Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa will become the first tourist to visit the International Space Station in more than a decade when he blasts off on a Russian rocket in December. AFP/David McNew MOSCOW - Russia announced plans Thursday to take Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa to the International Space Station (ISS) in December in a bid to resurrect its space tourism programme in the face of US competition. Maezawa, who made his fortune in online retail, said he plans to document the mission and share it with the world on his YouTube channel with over 700,000 subscribers. The Roscosmos space agency said Maezawa would make the flight from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan with production assistant Yozo Hirano aboard a Soyuz MS-20 spacecraft that is scheduled for December 8. READ: Wanted: Girlfriend to fly to the Moon with Japanese billionaire "I'm so curious 'what's life like in space?' So, I am planning to find out on my own and share with the world on my YouTube channel," Maezawa said as quoted by Roscosmos. The excentric billionaire has previously announced plans to take eight people with him on a 2023 mission around the moon aboard a Starship spacecraft built by SpaceX, the Roscosmos rival of US billionaire Elon Musk. Maezawa and film producer Hirano will begin approximately three months of pre-flight training in June at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre in Star City, a closed city outside of Moscow, Roscosmos added. READ: Fly me to the Moon: Japan billionaire offers space seats They have already passed the required medical examinations, it said. Roscosmos said the flight will last 12 days and the crew will be led by Cosmonaut Alexander Misurkin, who has already been on two expeditions to the ISS. A total of eight private self-funded space travellers have visited the ISS and Maezawa will be the first from Japan. READ: All aboard! Next stop space His flight will also be the first time that two of the three spots on a Soyuz space rocket will be occupied by tourists. "We are excited for Maezawa-san and we are honoured to have enabled this opportunity for him to fly to space," said Eric Anderson, CEO of Space Adventures, a private spaceflight company. It has cooperated with Roscosmos since the first space tourist flight in 2001.