Duduzane Zuma (2nd L), the son of former South African President Jacob Zuma smiles as he stands with Zulu warriors as they wait to be addressed by his father following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. PIETERMARITZBURG - Former president Jacob Zuma has pleaded not guilty to all charges levelled against him. Zuma and French arms company, Thales appeared in the High Court in Pietermaritzburg. WATCH: Zuma addresses supporters The case has been postponed to 19 July to allow the state time to respond to the former president's special plea application. Zuma wants State prosecutor, Billy Downer to recuse himself from the trial, claiming that he's biased. Judge Piet Koen eNCA Former president Jacob Zuma stands in the dock after a recess of his corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzile Zuma, daughter of former South African President Jacob Zuma, sits in court ahead of her dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzile Zuma (L) and Edward Zuma (R), children of former South African President Jacob Zuma, are seen ahead of their dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Ace Magashule, suspended African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general is seen in court ahead of the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzane Zuma, the son of former South African President Jacob Zuma, arrives ahead of his dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. J Ace Magashule, suspended African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general is seen in court ahead of the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Thales representative Pierre-Marie Durand is seen during the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Advocate Dali Mpofu (L), part of the legal counsel of former South African President Jacob Zuma, and Billy Downer (R), the National Prosecuting Authority lead prosecutor, is seen ahead of Jacob Zuma's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Zulu warriors wait to be addressed by former South African President Jacob Zuma following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzane Zuma (2nd L), the son of former South African President Jacob Zuma smiles as he stands with Zulu warriors as they wait to be addressed by his father following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Former South African President Jacob Zuma addresses his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. A member of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) stands next to the stage moments before former South African President Jacob Zuma addressed his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Women wearing African National Congress (ANC) regalia dance as they wait to be addressed by former South African President Jacob Zuma following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Former South African President Jacob Zuma dances on stage before addressing his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021.
Phill Magakoe / AFP Former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. AFP/Phill Magakoe Judge Piet Koen eNCA Former president Jacob Zuma stands in the dock after a recess of his corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzile Zuma, daughter of former South African President Jacob Zuma, sits in court ahead of her dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzile Zuma (L) and Edward Zuma (R), children of former South African President Jacob Zuma, are seen ahead of their dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Ace Magashule, suspended African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general is seen in court ahead of the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzane Zuma, the son of former South African President Jacob Zuma, arrives ahead of his dad's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. J Ace Magashule, suspended African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general is seen in court ahead of the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Thales representative Pierre-Marie Durand is seen during the corruption trial of former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Advocate Dali Mpofu (L), part of the legal counsel of former South African President Jacob Zuma, and Billy Downer (R), the National Prosecuting Authority lead prosecutor, is seen ahead of Jacob Zuma's corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Zulu warriors wait to be addressed by former South African President Jacob Zuma following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Duduzane Zuma (2nd L), the son of former South African President Jacob Zuma smiles as he stands with Zulu warriors as they wait to be addressed by his father following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Former South African President Jacob Zuma addresses his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. A member of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) stands next to the stage moments before former South African President Jacob Zuma addressed his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Women wearing African National Congress (ANC) regalia dance as they wait to be addressed by former South African President Jacob Zuma following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021. Former South African President Jacob Zuma dances on stage before addressing his supporters following the postponement of his corruption trial outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021.
Phill Magakoe / AFP Former South African President Jacob Zuma at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. AFP/Phill Magakoe Judge Piet Koen eNCA Former president Jacob Zuma stands in the dock after a recess of his corruption trial at the Pietermaritzburg High Court in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, on May 26, 2021.