South Africa fly-half Handre Pollard runs past England number 8 Billy Vunipola during the 2019 Rugby World Cup final in Japan. JOHANNESBURG - World champions South Africa will play for the first time since winning the Rugby World Cup in November 2019 when they host Georgia in a two-Test series this July, SA Rugby announced Monday. The Springboks are preparing for three matches against the touring British and Irish Lions later in July and August. South Africa will meet Georgia on July 2 or 3 and 9 or 10, then tackle the Lions on July 24 and 31 and August 7. Venues for both series will be announced later. The coronavirus pandemic has prevented South Africa from playing since they defeated England 32-12 in Japan to lift the World Cup a record-equalling third time. "Nothing beats a full-blooded international to test your skill set, readiness and ability under pressure, and we are delighted to have this opportunity before the Lions series," said director of rugby Rassie Erasmus. READ: Lions tour 'massive motivation' for Springbok Jantjies' Pau move Former Springbok Erasmus coached the World Cup-winning squad and has since returned to his original role with Jacques Nienabar appointed head coach early last year. "Jacques, his coaching staff and management have been working around the clock to get the team as well prepared as possible," Erasmus said. "The Georgia series is a much-needed opportunity after such a long and unforeseen interruption due to COVID-19." READ: Lions boss Gatland says 'durability' fears key to Sexton's omission Nienaber said: "The confirmation of the Georgian Tests, and the announcement of the British and Irish Lions squad last week have caused a lot of excitement. "I am sure it will lift the spirit of the players –- we can now accelerate our preparations for our return to Test rugby." The Springboks have played European second-tier side Georgia only once, winning 46-19 at the 2003 World Cup in Australia. South Africa are ranked first in the world and Georgia 12th.