File: A displaced girl holds her teddy bear at an orphanage. AFP/Safin Hamed NEW DELHI - Thousands of children have lost one or both parents in the new pandemic wave ravaging India, where there were already millions of orphans. The prospect of a surge of abandoned minors worries many. The pandemic -- which is claiming thousands of lives a day -- is leaving others without a caregiver. Such children "are not only living an emotional tragedy, but they are also at high risk of neglect, abuse and exploitation", said UNICEF India's chief Yasmin Haque. READ: UK insists vaccines work against Indian COVID variant The official pandemic toll is more than 270,000 in India, though the real number is widely believed to be far higher with many people dying outside of the overwhelmed medical system. "We don’t know how many people are dying, let alone how many children are orphaned," said Akancha Srivastava, a cybersecurity expert who has launched a coronavirus helpline for children. However online evidence points to a devastating scale. Social media appeals are being made for breast milk and food for infants who have lost their mothers. READ: Pfizer, Moderna vaccines effective against Indian variants: study Some coronavirus orphans are also being put up for illegal adoption on social media. Srivastava said her helpline received at least 300 calls and messages in a day. "Our authorities are overburdened, people are hassled. It's extremely easy in these circumstances to misassign a child to some trafficking racket or an adoption racket," she said. Under Indian law, an orphaned child must be seen by a government official and is put in an institution if there are no relatives to look after them. Smriti Irani, India’s minister for women and child development, this month warned that unofficial approaches to adopting COVID-19 orphans are a "trap" and "illegal". READ: Variant among accelerators of India's Covid explosion: WHO top scientist Children whose parents have died or are sick have been reduced to selling vegetables on the streets, according to the Protsahan India Foundation, a child rights NGO. "We’re looking at a generation of children in extreme distress and facing severe trauma who will grow up to be broken adults," said Sonal Kapoor from the foundation. She said children were bearing a far greater brunt in the latest pandemic wave, including cases of incest and sex trafficking. Dhananjay Tingal from Bachpan Bachao Andolan told AFP that the child welfare organisation received about 50 calls a day, a big increase from last year. "This is not the first time that children are being orphaned. But this time, the child has to face it alone ... there are inhibitions in even hugging a child in pain," he said.