Colombian farmer Jorge Barragan shows a jaguar that appeared in a trap's camera. AFP/Raul Arboleda HATO COROZAL - On the plains of eastern Colombia, an age-old conflict between man and beast plays out near-daily. Jaguars attack cattle. Farmers retaliate with shotguns. But rancher Jorge Barragan has declared a unilateral truce with the carnivorous cats. He has taken a liking to the largest feline of the Americas, and says he does not mind sacrificing a few head of cattle to do his part to conserve the deadly hunters that have captured his imagination. About ten years ago, Barragan decided to sacrifice part of his family farm, La Aurora, to the savanna that provides shelter and food for jaguars he says are "worth more alive than dead." The family has long banned hunting of wild animals -- jaguar food -- on the property. Barragan seeks the cats out rather than dreading a sighting. He spends a large part of his day combing through footage on hidden cameras dotted across the farm, which has also become a nature reserve, in Colombia's eastern Casanare department. In the pictures, he encounters old feline friends and discovers new ones. But it is not always a happy coexistence. - Doing the opposite - The cats, which can weigh 100kg and measure some two metres in length, frequently cross Barragan's property. And sometimes the cattle fall victim -- as many as 100 per year at a loss of some $300 per head. Barragan says he makes up the losses, at least partly, through visits by scientists and tourists hoping to catch a glimpse of one of the majestic spotted cats. In 2018, the farm drew some 160 visitors per month, at $30 per person per night, but this revenue stream has all but run dry during the coronavirus pandemic. The jaguar is listed as "near threatened" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Population numbers are decreasing, with farming, residential and commercial development among the main threats. "Jaguar-livestock conflict is a serious threat to jaguar survival," states the IUCN. "There are few areas within Jaguar range that can be considered safe" for the cats. For Barragan, "a culture was created of killing the feline to stop the problem" of livestock losses. "But we are doing the opposite," he told AFP, proudly. The rancher said he inherited a deep respect for Nature from his father. But his love affair with the jaguar began when he saw a photo of one of the majestic predators in 2009, taken on a hidden camera a student had left on the farm. "We knew that we had (jaguars) in the savanna, but I was very moved when I saw that first photo." - by Juan Sebastian Serrano