Boity and her mother.  SPONSORED - Today, musician and entrepreneur, Boity Thulo donated her R50 000 winnings from the country’s first ever financial education TV game show to the Vhathu Vhothe Abuse Centre. Boity and her mom Modiehi Thulo won a special celebrity episode on eTV’s Sanlam Moola-Money Family Game show and selected the gender-based violence (GBV) organisation because it is a ‘powerful charity that isn’t as well-known as many other bigger ones’.The Thulos faced off for charity on the premiere a few weeks ago, beating real estate mogul and TV host TT Mbha and his wife, Esperanca to the prize. The Vhathu Vhothe Abuse Centre was founded by Sbongile Nkosi and provides support to the victims of GBV and abuse. The centre provides counselling, door to door campaigns, home visits and victim empowerment projects such as support groups, awareness campaigns and poverty alleviation programmes. Among the programmes are gardening and skills development such as bead work, sewing and crafts. Boity started her career in 2011 presenting YOTV’s ‘crib notes’ and went on to host several TV shows, including her own reality series, and star in dramas Rockville and Dear Betty. In 2018, she kicked off her rapping career with debut single ‘Wuz Dat’. Most recently, she launched BT Signature, a range of premium alcoholic and non-alcoholic sparkling fruit beverages. In April 2020, she launched the Boity Thulo Foundation to help women and children who were hit with economic strain, especially as a result of Covid-19. Centre founder, Sbongile, said this donation is the first it has ever received. “Vhathu Vhothe’s main source of income is the Department of Social Development. This only covers salaries for one social worker, three of the auxiliary social workers and 12 care workers, which is barely enough to addres its objectives. So, we thank Boity and her mom so much for this donation!” She said the winnings will go towards victim empowerment programmes, which focus on strengthening the Human Rights of women and children. Alongside Boity at an event to handover over the donation was Nozizwe Vundla, head of Foundation at Sanlam. Sanlam has recently rebooted its business to be a purpose-led organisation. The group aims to help Africans across the continent ‘live with confidence’. “The Sanlam Moola-Money Family Game Show is manifesting this purpose by helping South Africans grow their financial skills – while being entertained. Having people with Boity’s star power on the show has raised awareness, allowing us to make as much of an impact as possible,” Vundla said. The Sanlam Moola-Money show is broadcast each week on eTV on Saturday at 18h00 and is rebroadcast on eExtra on Saturdays at 13h30 and Sundays at 14h30on eTV. All episodes are available for catch-up on sanlammoolamoney.co.za.