Giving outcomes of the ANC NEC meeting, President Cyril Ramaphosa has slammed suspended ANC Secretary-general Ace Magashule Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Suspended ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule has been ordered to apologise publicly for his so-called letter of suspension to the party president. Giving outcomes of the ANC NEC meeting, President Cyril Ramaphosa has slammed Magashule, saying such conduct has no place in the ruling party. READ: Magashule 'suspends' Ramaphosa "The NEC discussed the ‘letter of suspension’ written by the secretary-general to the president, for which the secretary-general had no authority or mandate from any structure of the movement," Ramaphosa said. "The NEC agreed that such conduct was completely unacceptable and a flagrant violation of the rules, norms and values of the ANC. "The NEC furthermore instructed the officials to advise the secretary-general to apologise publicly to ANC structures and members within a set timeframe. READ: ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule has been suspended "If he fails to do so, the ANC will institute disciplinary procedures in accordance with the ANC Constitution," Ramaphosa said. While Magashule is on suspension, his deputy Jessie Duarte will take over the secretary-general's role. "The NEC confirmed that in the light of the temporary suspension of the secretary-general, deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte will, in accordance with the ANC Constitution, carry out the functions entrusted to the secretary-general by the National Conference, the National General Council, the NEC or the NWC.” WATCH: Ramaphosa gives update on ANC NEC meeting outcomes Ramaphosa said members have condemned the unwarranted attacks on Duarte and ANC staff members at Luthuli House for carrying out decisions of the NEC, NWC and officials. "These attacks have taken the form of threats, insults, unfounded allegations and misinformation," Ramaphosa said. While Ace Magashule is on suspension, his deputy Jessie Duarte will take over the Secretary-General's role. Courtesy #DStv403