A Japanese newspaper that is an Olympic sponsor has called for the Games to be cancelled. AFP/Kazuhiro Nogi TOKYO - Japan's Asahi Shimbun newspaper, an official Tokyo Olympics sponsor, called for the Games to be cancelled on Wednesday, in the latest sign of opposition less than two months before the opening ceremony. The call comes with public opinion in Japan firmly against holding the Games this summer, and after prominent business leaders voiced their concern in recent weeks. Organisers insist however that the Games are on, saying an extensive rulebook will keep athletes and the Japanese public safe. READ: 'No change' on Olympics, Japan says after US virus travel warning The Asahi daily's editorial urged Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga to "make a calm, objective assessment of the situation and make the decision to cancel this summer's Olympics". The paper said it "cannot accept the gamble" of holding the event, despite organisers' assurances it will be safe. It also accused International Olympic Committee leaders, including vice-president John Coates, of being "self-righteous" and "clearly out of step" with the Japanese public. READ: Finish line within touch, Tokyo Olympics pointman says of Games When asked last week if the Games could be held even during a virus state of emergency, Coates said "the answer is absolutely yes". Tokyo and other parts of Japan are currently under a state of emergency, which is expected to be extended this week until June 20. "Saying 'yes' without demonstrating any clear grounds for it once again drove home the self-righteous image of the IOC," the Asahi editorial said. READ: Cancelling the Olympics? Huge consequences and a financial quagmire Two prominent figures in Japanese business have also voiced opposition to the Games in recent weeks. Masayoshi Son, head of tech investment behemoth SoftBank Group, tweeted on Sunday: "Do the IOC have the right to decide if it's held or not?" "If you think about what people have to put up with, we might have a lot more to lose" if the Games go ahead, he added. And Hiroshi Mikitani, CEO of e-commerce giant Rakuten, called the Games "a suicide mission" earlier this month. "The risk is too big and... I'm against having the Tokyo Olympics this year," he told CNN.