Filming of the "Friends" reunion was delayed by the pandemic, with producers intent on bringing the gang back to iconic locations at the show's Los Angeles studio lot including the "Central Perk" cafe. AFP/Lee Celano LOS ANGELES - The stars of "Friends" never really left us -- they were simply on a break. The cast of the beloved 1990s sitcom about six attractive, straight, white New Yorkers with ludicrously giant Manhattan apartments finally reunite Thursday for a much-hyped and long-delayed special. Details are under wraps, but fans can expect a "table read" of a classic episode, a recreation of the famous "Friends" quiz at Monica and Rachel's apartment -- and lots of hugs, tears and reminiscing. "Where's the tissue box?" asks an emotional Jennifer Aniston in a trailer that shows the gang reflecting on their ascent to stardom and firm real-life friendship. "I love you guys so much," she adds during a group embrace. Their bond continues to be a profitable one. Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer collectively negotiated one million dollars each per episode by the end of their colossally popular and zeitgeist-setting 236-episode, 10-year run. In a sign of the show's enduring appeal, the gang are reportedly pocketing $2.5-million each for the reunion. Banking on nostalgia, parent company WarnerMedia originally planned the "unscripted special" as a blockbuster way to launch its HBO Max streaming service last year. But filming was delayed by the pandemic, with producers determined to bring the gang back in-person to iconic sets like the "Central Perk" cafe at the show's original studio outside Los Angeles. "We wanted to do it a year ago, give back to everyone -- to all the fans, especially in the dark times we were all experiencing," said Schwimmer in a recent interview. "Hopefully, a year later, people will still enjoy it." "The One Where They Get Back Together" airs 17 years after the show's finale drew more than 50 million viewers, each desperate to find out whether on-again-off-again Ross and Rachel would end up back together (spoiler: they would.) Thanks to re-runs and now streaming, the show's appeal has crossed generations, with viewers too young to remember its original run still quoting catchphrases like "We were on a break," "How you doin'?" and "Pivot!" "No matter what time of day, where you are in the country, what kind of television service you have -- chances are, you can still access an episode of 'Friends,'" said Nick Marx, Colorado State University film and media studies associate professor.