A health worker inoculates a man with a dose of the Covaxin COVID-19 coronavirus vaccine in a school-turned-vaccination centre in New Delhi. AFP/Tauseef Mustafa LONDON - The Group of Seven wealthy democracies worked on plans to scale up global COVID-19 vaccinations, as calls mounted for a drastic increase in funding to help developing nations virtually shut out of early efforts. Underscoring the challenges faced, the foreign minister of India -- where COVID-19 cases have soared in recent weeks -- said he decided to participate in the London meeting virtually after potential exposure to the virus. India was one of several nations invited by Britain for the first in-person G7 meeting since the pandemic began last year, in an effort to rally democracies in the face of a rising China and assertive Russia. READ: India announces $6.7bn to help vaccine, health firms boost pandemic battle Foreign ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States are setting the agenda for a G7 leaders' summit next month in Cornwall, southern England, which will mark US President Joe Biden's international debut as president. The G7 opened its final day with a session focused on open societies before taking up COVID-19 as well as the fight against climate change. "A really valuable part of the G7 format is to think in the round -- what do we need to do to help the most vulnerable countries around the world?" British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab told reporters. READ: Novavax starts COVID-19 vaccine trials on children More than 1.2 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered globally, but fewer than one percent in the least developed countries. With support from most wealthy nations, the UN-backed Covax programme is meant to share vaccines with the poorest nations. One week of new Covid-19 cases But rich countries have also effectively elbowed out Covax in the early stages, striking their own deals with drug manufacturers. READ: First batch of Pfizer vaccines arrive in South Africa Raab stressed the importance of Covax but said there was an additional question of "what we do about surplus domestic supply". The United States could soon be sitting on as many as 300 million extra doses -- nearly equivalent to its entire population -- due to ongoing contracts with manufacturers and success at home in inoculation campaigns, according to an estimate by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Biden quickly joined Covax after taking office in January, a reversal from the nationalism of his predecessor Donald Trump, and has promised $4 billion for the programme -- far more than any other country. The Biden administration last week also said it would divert 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca jab, which has not been approved in the United States, and provide $100-million in immediate supplies to India.