The Police Minister said 9,518 people were reported raped between January and March this year. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Police Minister Bheki Cele says sexual violence remains shameful. Over 9,500 people were reported raped between January and March this year. WATCH: No justice yet for young rape survivor Cele said more than 4,000 of the rapes took place at the home of the victim or alleged rapist. "We are working around the clock to clear the backlog and GBV cases are being prioritised," the minister said while detailing the police response to the increase. READ: Rape Crisis Centre protests for court upgrade Lisa Vetten, a University of Johannesburg researcher on gender-based violence, said: "On the one hand, increases in rape [statistics] is not necessarily a bad thing because it could be an indication of greater reporting rather than an increase in actual rapes that are happening. "But it's really important to have all these statistics for the year in order to match against previous years." Vetten said three police stations have shown increased reported rapes over the past 10 years and need intervention, namely Diepsloot, Delft and Lusikisiki. Lisa Vetten, a University of Johannesburg researcher, on gender-based violence, spoke with eNCA's Dan Moyane. Courtesy of #DStv403 #CrimeStats below is a presentation done by SAPS today on crime statistics in SA between January and March this year, compared to the same period in previous years.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/GLVlIY8zQI #PoliceMinistry #CrimeStats: #DNABacklog and rape kits: 42% of dockets for crimes committed against women and children that had been outstanding for over a year, have now been finalized. The SAPS is also hiring more forensic analysts to work through the backlog in our labs. ME pic.twitter.com/YlTchTlmhj [RAPE] Described by the Police Minister as the Nations shame, 9 518 people were raped between January and March 2021. Out of a sample of 6893 rape incidents, 4130 of the incidents took place at the home of victim or alleged perpetrator. #CrimeStats